[music]
Tech is going to continue to be the main
earnings growth driver.
>> Investors are focused on who is at the
center of the AI workload.
>> The problem is the valuation is already
very high.
>> There is a high bar for earnings to jump
over. Earnings are going to be great,
but you're going to see [music]
significant multiple compression.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live [music] from New York City this
morning. Good morning. Good morning for
our audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right [music] now.
Coming into Wednesday with limited push
back.
>> Dollar's doing great. I want it to be
just seek its own level, which is the
fair thing to do. You could have it I
could have it go up or go down like a
yo-yo.
>> The dollar sinking to the lowest level
in almost four years. As stocks hit
fresh record highs ahead of today's Fed
meeting, investors are turning their
attention to a big afternoon for big
tech. Microsoft and Meta [music]
reporting after the close.
>> So Jonathan, if last year was really
categorized as maybe a [music] trade war
between the United States and their
trading partners, this year is shaping
up to be a currency [music] war. And we
saw that yesterday in the dollar, the
Bloomberg dollar index dropping the
second we heard the president give his
remarks and he basically was insinuating
or suggesting he could be the individual
behind the strength or the weakness of
the US currency. I could have it go up
or down like a yo-yo. When [music] you
look at some of the more comments he
made, though he was talking about how
China, Japan want to devalue their
currency. This isn't new for the
president. [music] He's wanted a weaker
dollar when it comes to trade deficit
and exports.
>> I have to say, I wonder if we're taking
this too far this morning. It's not what
the president said, [music] it's what he
didn't say. And there's a sense that
this is what the administration
ultimately wants. Euro dollar back
through 120 very briefly. [music] And I
have to sit here and respect this is
where the market wanted to go in
yesterday's session, throughout the
whole of yesterday, and into the
afternoon.
>> You're right. And there was a note I
read this morning about the fact that
the dollar selloff will continue with or
without Trump's blessing, but we do know
that they're not going to potentially
[music] get in front of it. This is what
they want and this could potentially
help US companies when it comes to
exports. [music] The president has
talked about this in the past. He said
he likes the idea of defending a strong
dollar, but he his words he makes a hell
of a lot more money when it's [music]
weaker.
>> It's hard to make the case also that
this is the so-called sell America trade
given what's happening in other asset
classes. [music] Equities are record
highs in the bond market. You're not
seeing major signs of that developing
with tents at around 420 something.
[music] Some place we've been at for the
last several weeks.
>> You're only seeing it in the dollar
right now. But you can look at what is
going on with the US dollar and think
about what does this mean for everything
else in terms of recalibration of
equities or sovereign debt around the
world if it continues on this decline.
>> Big moves in equities this morning.
Equity futures on the S&P up by 0.4% on
the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ, a major
rally bought in Europe a little bit
early this morning in Amsterdam [music]
out of the Netherlands. ASML absolutely
crushing it. Listen to these numbers.
The estimate for orders was 6.85 [music]
billion. The number bookings were a
record 13.2 [music] billion in 4Q.
>> So this bodess well for the entire AI
space. They make the lithography
machines that are then used by [music]
all these customers like TSMC, by Intel,
by Samsung that make the chips that
people like Jensen Wong goes and
purchases [music] for Nvidia. And given
what we are seeing out of ASML, this AI
boom looks like it's going to continue
for 2026.
>> Big 24 hours for big tech coming up. A
little bit later after the close, we'll
hear from Meta and Microsoft. Tomorrow,
you'll hear from Apple. Equities up by
4/10en of 1%. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Keith Lerner of Truis with
stocks at all-time highs. The former
Kansas City Fed President Thomas Honig
with a rate decision on deck and James
Steel of HSBC as gold continues a
record-breaking run. We begin this hour
with stocks building on record highs.
Keith Lerner of Truist writing, "We
expect a modest US economic uptick and
the equity bull market still deserves
the benefit of the doubt." Keith joins
us now for more. Keith, welcome to the
program. Let's talk about these alltime
highs and what you're expecting from the
Federal Reserve later this afternoon.
Sure. Hey, good morning. You know, the
first thing I would say, Jonathan,
that's really important. You kind of hit
on this is that, you know, we're in a
global bull market. Uh, we track about
40 countries around the globe. All of
them 100% are above their 200 day moving
average. So, that just kind of gives you
an idea of the of the strength behind
this. So, it's not necessarily a sell
America trade, but as as as in the past
where it was mainly the US, what we're
seeing is things really boring out
globally. And then in the US, 10 of the
11 sectors are up this year as well. So
that's also a sign of of this uh you
know broadening. And then your question
specifically around the Fed um you know
I don't think that's the most important
thing right now as far as the meeting
today because you know the the market is
pricing in the next Fed rate cut to be
around June. I don't know that there's
much that has changed from the last
press um conference. I mean we have
actually seen a little bit of
improvement in some of the job data like
initial jobless claims are hovering
around 200,000. So, I think the, you
know, the more interesting or the more
um direction that the market's going to
be focused on is those tech earnings and
then, you know, hopefully any day here
we'll actually get a new Fed chairperson
as well.
>> Well, maybe maybe any day, any week, any
month. I've got no idea, Keith. I want
to pick up on the first point. I think
it's so important. You can look at the
dollar and create your own narrative.
Look around the world right now. We can
start domestically. Outperformance for
small caps year to date speaks to a
better outlook for the economic
backdrop. That's state side. what you
see elsewhere, copper record highs, the
Aussie dollar outperforming. Keith, you
can see it across asset classes that
this looks like a repricing of the
global economy and a repricing where
we're going to see a better outlook for
the year to come. Is that a fair
characterization of the way you would
define what's behind the price action?
>> I think that is that is part of it. I
mean, you know, when we think about the
US, we we're in the view that we're
going to have this uptick, you know,
overall. And then you know I think the
US dollar weakness is helping out. Maybe
that's a sign of growth. But also I mean
we have to remember um uh Fed Governor
Myron's you know who who who uh who came
out with his thesis about this manifesto
around the weak dollar as well. So I
think there's kind of this global change
this this kind of resourceheavy demand
over time the tariffs all this is
playing into a bit of a dis debasement.
And then when you think about in the US
the sectors that are leading this year
are energy and material. So that kind of
plays with this global theme that we're
seeing, you know, as well. I will say I
think this is going to be, as we all
know, a really interesting week for
tech. Tech has um really reset as far as
expectations, and I think the setup is
actually somewhat improved now after
this kind of, you know, three-month
consolidation for the for the sector.
>> Keith, just sticking on the dollar for a
moment globally, what does this mean for
Asian equity markets, places that are
export ccentric?
Well, it could be, you know, a bit more
of of a challenge on a on a but from an
investment standpoint on a it's actually
been somewhat of a positive. If we think
about I I'll hit on develop first like
last year uh the majority of the
outperformance of international develop
was was currency local markets were
almost the same and as a US investor if
you're seeing some you know currency
appreciation overseas that actually
helps your returns but I guess to to
your point at some point if the
currencies um like in in Asia become too
strong then that will slow things down
and hurt the overall economy but I still
think we're in this phase of you know
it's not enough to really suffocate the
global growth trends that we're seeing.
I mean, at some point it will be. I just
don't think we're there yet.
>> You mentioned tech as being potentially
more important than the Fed today,
Microsoft, Meta, Tesla. What are you
looking for? Who are you most excited
about?
>> Well, I I think the, you know, the one
thing uh, you know, I think is somewhat
constructive is, you know, if you think
about last year, people were very
excited about tech. They're talking
about, you know, potentially a tech
bubble. And since October 29th, which is
when things kind of peaked out, the tech
sector is down where everything else has
been lifted up. We looked at the uh the
relative valuations of tech to the
overall market. Back at that October
high, the premium to the S&P was about
38%. Where is it today? About 17%. And
at the same time, the earning trends or
the comparative earning trends are
making new highs. So I think at least
that bar for for positive surprises has
been lowered. when you look at
underneath the hood which you also are
seeing this kind of big divergence with
the semiconductors which are at all-time
highs versus software which is down
about 15%. So I think the semiconductors
the news that we have on ASML is still
showing hey this AI theme it may have
been pushed back but don't forget about
it that's still the dominant theme of
this bull market.
>> Keith you mentioned the move in software
and the weakness there. What do you
think's behind it?
Well, I I think there's a lot of concern
around, you know, that AI is taking over
over our software. Our head of uh equity
said, you know, the old saying was, you
know, software software was eating the
world and now AI is kind of eating
software and it's something hard to
disprove and that, you know, some of the
the new AI like with um um the new um AI
from Gemini, I think is with the coding
and so forth and how quickly you can do
things and efficiently on on the uh on
the software side makes people nervous.
So it's hard to disprove it. So the the
software companies going to have to come
out and and really try to to discuss the
demand that we're still seeing going
forward. And also as you have more AI
tools, it may mean less licenses as
well. So I think that's what the market
is struggling. You're seeing a
broadening overall market, but you're
seeing a more of a divergence within
tech because of these crossurrens.
>> Keith, do you expect those moves to be
sustained then? Do you think it will be
difficult for software to reclaim
leadership? I I think you you can
certainly have an oversold bounce, but I
think the challenge for software is that
it's hard to disprove. So even if they
come out and say our numbers are still
good, investors will be concerned about
the future. I think you are seeing some
value investors kind of nibbling down
here since they've been hit so hard. So
again, I I would expect that you
probably get you some relief in the in
the area, but it's hard to look at them
as as as leadership anytime soon.
>> Keith, quick final question. Do you
think it's fair to call this the least
anticipated Fed decision of the last 12
months?
I'll go with that. I I hope that it
becomes uneventful because again I think
um you know with the the market not
pricing in much and tech earnings and a
fed chair person at some point as you
said days weeks and months away it's
just not the main focus of this market
right now.
>> Keith not at all. It's good to see you.
Thank you sir. Keith Lerner of Truist
seems like there's a focus on the
politics of the Fed right now and not
the policy. And if you ask a lot of
people this morning on what they're
looking for from the news conference
that's the direction they're leaning in.
They want to know what the Fed chair has
to say about the Lisa Cook hearing he
showed up to about what's going on
potentially in the race. Is he going to
stay on as a governor? Also from Anna
Wong, our Bloomberg economist, saying
her focus is going to be on whether
Governor Christopher Waller supports the
hold or desends in favor of cutting
rates. And what does that mean for his
star in the race to become Fed Chair?
>> The race continues. We've got to wait
another week or maybe another few hours.
I've got absolutely no idea. Let's give
you an update on news elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara
Island. Hey, Yahihara. Hi, John. [music]
President Donald Trump saying he's not
worried about the dollar's recent slump.
The president telling reporters he's
comfortable with the green back at
multi-year lows, saying quote, "The
dollar's doing [music] great." His
comments adding to the dollar's decline,
currently trading at its lowest level in
nearly four [music] years. Meanwhile,
Minnesota Democrat Ilhan Omar was
attacked during a town hall as she
called for consequences over aggressive
immigration [music] policies. The man
appeared to squirt some kind of liquid
on the congresswoman before security and
police tackled him. As you [music] can
see right there, a statement from her
office saying, quote, "The congresswoman
is okay." And she continued with her
town hall because she doesn't let
bullies win. And Amazon is cutting about
16,000 jobs across the company as part
of [music] ongoing restructuring
efforts. According to a statement, the
company saying most affected employees
[music] will receive 90 days to seek
internal roles. Amazon notified
employees yesterday about the impending
job cuts in an email that was sent by
[music] mistake. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John,
>> not a good look, that's for sure. Yhara,
thank you. More from Yhara in about 30
minutes time. Up next on the program,
embracing a weaker dollar.
>> Dollar is doing great. I'd want it to be
just seek its own level, which is the
fair thing to do. You could have it I
could have it go up or go down like a
yo-yo.
>> Kind of describes the last 12 hours or
so. John Lapra of Eurasia [music] Group
joins us next live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Big day just around the corner. Federal
Reserve later on this afternoon. That's
not the big moment, [music] that's for
sure. At least that's not what's
anticipated. The least anticipated Fed
meeting in quite a while. The chairman
speaks at 2:30 Eastern time. After the
close, we'll hear from Meta, Microsoft,
[music] Tesla, big tech earnings
reporting after the closing bout. Onto
tomorrow when we hear from Apple. The
fireworks are elsewhere in the equity
market. All-time highs on the S&P 500.
Futures add to the move up a third of
1%. But elsewhere, I'm talking about
foreign exchange. The dollar at
multi-year lows under surveillance this
morning embracing [music]
a weaker currency.
I think it's great. I mean, the value of
the dollar, look at the business we're
doing. No, dollar's dollar's doing
great. I'd want it to be just seek its
own level, which is the fair thing to
do. You could have it I could have it go
up or go down like a yo-yo.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump downplaying
dollar weakness, saying he's comfortable
with the greenback's value after its
steepest one-day drop in some eight
months. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins
us now from Washington. Morning, Tyler.
>> Yeah, hey, John. Good morning. Well, a
rather relaxed tone from President
Trump. As we know, a number of issues
are weighing on the currency driven in
part by the unpredictable policym here
in Washington, including but not limited
to concerns about the Fed's
independence. these heightened tensions
between the US and NATO allies which
really came to a head last week over
Greenland and now even the possibility
that we could be heading towards a
partial government shutdown. Now, as you
well know, there was a lot of
speculation headed into the second Trump
administration that officials could be
more comfortable with a weaker dollar
policy considering that it would make US
goods abroad cheaper and could help
boost US exports. And President Trump
has taken some competing views when it
comes to dollar policy before. He's
previously touted that a strengthening
would be good for bilateral trade
negotiations, but has also long
maintained that a weaker currency could
help those very industries that he has
been focused on bolstering, most notably
domestic manufacturing. And he made
these comments ahead of a speech in Iowa
yesterday where he really did maintain
focus on his economic agenda. He
tailored his remarks to this farmstate
audience that has had some mixed
outcomes when it comes to President
Trump's policies. particularly around
tariffs and competition with China. In
fact, Iowa is the second top soybean
producing state in this country. And we
know that that has been a target of
Beijing's Beijing's recent retaliation
over the last few months. John, uh, just
quickly to keep on China and end here.
We know President Trump has long accused
other economies of trying to get weaker
exchange rates to boost exports.
Yesterday, he name checked two Asian
economies, China and Japan, saying that
he often fights with them over the
issue.
>> They're both in focus at the moment. And
that's for sure. Tyler, also in focus,
Chairman Pal later on this afternoon.
Are we going to get an announcement
ahead of that, a new Fed chair
announcement, someone nominated sometime
soon?
>> Well, according to President Trump, it
is coming any day now. And while we may
not get that announcement soon, it is
very likely we will hear from the
president later today, likely heaping on
that criticism of Jerome Powell if the
FOMC does hold rates steady. But John,
at the moment, it is our understanding
that he is still with those four top
contenders. Of course, the NEC director
Kevin Hasset, uh, Christopher Waller,
the current Fed Governor, former Fed
Governor Kevin Worsh, and then Rick Reer
of Black Rockck. as Bloomberg News had
reported last week that he was gaining
some steam when it came to his potential
as a contender considering that
Washington has raised concerns about
confirming President Trump's potential
nominee over the latest allegations
lobbied against the Fed chair and the
subpoenas issued by the Department of
Justice. Of course, John, as you well
know, today is going to be President
Trump's uh sorry, Fed Chair Jerome
Powell's first encounter with reporters
since he was issued those subpoenas and
no doubt that's going to be something to
watch.
>> Thank you. With the latest down in
Washington, without a doubt, box office
special programming later on this
afternoon, Bloombeck surveillance. I
have to say the decision itself is
appearing to be pretty boring. Most
people assume that they're going to keep
rates unchanged, but the future of the
Federal Reserve is a topic worthy of a
lot of attention, and this process is
getting messy. We've seen messy things
happen before. The former president took
a long time to renominate Chair Pal.
Before that, going back years, I
remember President Obama really dragged
his feet over Janet Yellen at the time
he wanted Larry Summers, and that took a
while. That got messy, too. But this is
probably the messiest I've seen for
quite a while.
>> Well, we do know the president does take
his time when it's a position he really
does care about. Look how long it took
him to decide. Remember the Treasury
race that was straight up Game of
Thrones. This morning, the Wall Street
Journal talks about how the prediction
markets, the polyarket odds have been
all over, and they say that basically
why still hasn't he made this decision?
People close to the process are
beginning to wonder whether the
president is looking for something he
won't ever find, a unicorn.
>> John Lieieber of your Asia Group joins
us now for more. John, welcome to the
program. What's taken so long? Why is
the administration dragging his feet on
such an important topic?
I think the president hasn't made up his
mind and no one's going to tell him what
to do here and he's uh the final decider
and I think that he's got a you know the
same slate of candidates now that he's
had for the last 6 months he's narrowed
down a few. I think we can say Michelle
Bowman's not really in the race anymore
but these four men that he is looking at
I think that he genuinely hasn't made up
his mind. Now, a couple of weeks ago, he
did indicate that he had made up his
mind. And we were getting information
that suggested it was going to be Kevin
Hasset, and that kind of I think the
bottom kind of fell out of that with
these uh this this this indictment or
whatever it was that um uh Jerome Powell
got over the Fed remodeling. And so that
kind of derailed the process, I think.
And without that uh intervention from
the Department of Justice, I think this
probably would have been decided 3 weeks
ago. and now kind of it's a jump ball
again. So, I think predicting what
Trump's going to do here is is very
difficult. And frankly, predicting the
timing or content of any Trump
announcement, I think we've learned, is
a is a fool's errand. Um, it could be
any one of these four. I still think
Hasset's in the running. Uh, and he
could announce it anywhere from, you
know, 20 minutes from now to the middle
of uh March. So, I I think that this is
uh there's still a lot of drama left to
play out here. And I I think Trump likes
it that way. Well, when it comes to
Kevin Hassid, he's trading at some 6% of
polyarket odds. You're saying it's
underpriced right now. Was it the fact
that investors were saying we don't view
him as credible as some of the others?
And would that be potentially an about
face from Wall Street that could push
Trump into saying, "Okay, I'm going to
make my decision and I'm going with my
gut," which wasn't originally likely
Kevin Hasset.
>> Yeah. Well, I think that has just got I
think that the pressure on Trump to put
somebody kind of independent and
credible went up after the DOJ uh sent
these documents, whatever they did to
Powell. And so because of that, Hasset,
who's probably, you know, reasonably
seen as the person closest to Trump in
the race here, uh his odds dropped and
and Trump said, "Well, you're not really
my guy anymore." He also, of course, had
those comments he made about wanting to
keep Kevin in the White, Kevin Hasset in
the White House, which I think is what
really caused the market to move. Now,
with some distance from those DOJ
allegations and the fact that Hasset's
been very loyal to President Trump for a
very long time, longer than these other
three, and is clearly more like
President Trump's guy in the position, I
think as you move through time, the
longer this goes, Hasset's odds should
be considered rising. Now, I don't know
if they should be 5% or 30% or what they
should be, but I do think that he's
still a contender along with the others.
>> John, do you think there's someone we're
not talking about that potentially the
president could decide on?
>> Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think the
president kind of keeps his own counsel
on these things and likes the drama and
likes the surprise. So, I think Scott
Bessant is still a legitimate candidate
even though I think he he doesn't he's
better off at Treasury. Um, I think
Moran could potentially be a candidate.
I think there's probably a lot of people
out there where the president's going to
be looking for options if he can't he
doesn't like the current pool he has,
which is exactly what we saw him do with
the treasury hunt uh in the period
before the inauguration where you had
these front runners out there. Everyone
knew who they were and then all of a
sudden Trump's talking about people like
Kevin Worsh for Treasury cuz he's not
exactly satisfied with the Bessant
versus Lutnik options that he'd been
presented. So th this drama really could
go any way. We've seen everything from
this president and it wouldn't surprise
me any there's no twist and turn that
would surprise me right now.
>> We're deep into the realm of speculation
here so forgive me. This is not my base
case. But I still believe like John
there is a chance that the president
comes out and just says here's the guy
and the guy Scott Besson and he hasn't
even agreed to it and he just says
publicly that's who I'm picking.
>> Well, based on stories of how the
president has elevated individuals
before around him to different
positions, they find out moments before
sometimes before he sends that truth.
What you're saying is basically he would
send the truth and then say, "Sorry,
Scott. I know that you were in charge of
the search, but the search has led me to
you."
>> John, we talked about this yesterday.
The issue is there's a home bias here,
and the home bias is Wall Street. And I
understand why this is so important
right now to Wall Street, but for the
country, the top top issue right now is
immigration enforcement. John, can we
finish there? Because a year or so ago,
the president won the argument
convincingly and it's a pretty dramatic
turn of events to lose the country so
quickly on an issue he dominated on back
in November of 2024. John, how does the
administration fix this?
>> Yeah, look, I I think overreach is a
pretty common pattern with
administrations who come into office
thinking they have a mandate. Uh you saw
the Obama administration do it. You saw
the Biden administration do it. You saw
the Bush administration do it. And when
that happens, there's going to be a
backlash and you got to reverse course.
So, I don't think Trump will ever get
back to where he was in terms of the
credibility he had on immigration or
getting the credit he deserved for
shutting the southern border, which is
something that Biden said was impossible
to do. I I think he squandered all that
goodwill and now he's going to be
playing defense while also going on this
very political defense while continuing
this very aggressive campaign of
deporting uh illegal migrants in the
United States. I think the appointment,
the elevation of Tom Hman in Minnesota
shows a renewed focus on uh uh illegal
migrants who have committed crimes and
that's going to be important for
President Trump because it narrows the
scope of what they're trying to do while
still getting those deportation numbers
up. But I I also think a challenge for
Trump is that they've lit a powder keg
here. And you know, not only are you not
going to get the political goodwill that
he could have gotten on immigration,
there's going to be a lot of resistance
that's popping up among not just kind of
radical leftwing people, among normal
people who see the aggressive actions of
their government uh being taken against
citizens, and that's going to be an
ongoing problem for Trump.
>> John, I appreciate your time. Thank you,
sir. John Lieieber there group. That is
going to be a difficult one to turn
around ahead of the midterms.
>> And to John's point, it's going to be
from people like Senator Lisa Marowski,
Senator Tom Tillis. Basically, they are
coming out yesterday and they are saying
Christy Nome needs to go.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with the former Kansas City Fed
President Thomas Honik with a rate
decision on deck this afternoon. Plus,
Danny's with us. She's got your morning
movers. China approving purchases of
Nvidia H200 [music] chips for the first
time. That stock is up in the pre-market
by 1.6%. From New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> 5 days no losses on the S&P 500 coming
into Wednesday through the close Tuesday
at all time highs. The longest stretch
without a daily loss of the year so far
on the S&P 500 up a third of 1% on the
NASDAQ. Thank you ASML. [music]
We'll get to that in just a moment. The
NASDAQ up by 0.9% in the bond market
going into the Fed. What a snoozer. So
many of you are expecting the 2-year
bond yield right now just about in line
with Fed funds 35712. Yields down by
[music] not even a basis point on 10 at
the moment. The range for the year
intraday 410 to 430 at the upper end of
that range 42472 [music]
going into the Fed meeting later on this
afternoon. The fireworks in foreign
[music] exchange check it out. Euro
dollar four days of real euro strength
this morning a turnaround. This is
important. So is the president embracing
dollar weakness [music] or not? I've got
no idea. But I can tell you this. The
ECB is starting to push back. Governing
council member out of Austria speaking
[music] to the Financial Times saying if
the euro appreciates further and further
at some stage this might create of
course a certain necessity to react in
[music] terms of monetary policy.
>> This is why this is going to be the year
of potentially currency wars. And the
president was talking about that
yesterday, saying [music] he could make
the dollar go up or down like a yo-yo.
He was talking about in that moment, not
Europe, but he was talking about Japan
and China and how they continue to
devalue [music] and they need to push
back. This is why this is shaping up to
be an incredibly interesting story,
especially after the rate checks we saw
from the New York Fed with [music] the
banks over the weekend.
>> Euro dollar above 120 for about a
heartbeat, dropping back below that
level right now 11969. [music]
That's the cross asset price action.
Let's get you some single names, some
morning movers. Here's Danny with more.
Hey, Danny.
>> Hey, John. You mentioned ASML. What a
morning for the chip makers and chip
makers of all kinds. The results from
the Dutch company [music] were
incredibly strong, lifting the sector in
the US, but we also had earnings here
for American companies. Texas
Instruments being one of them. Again, a
different flavor of chip makers. It's
analog chips, but these go in everything
from cars to different hardware. And
it's a good sign for the economy as a
whole. Apparently, the backlog is
cleared and customers are buying again.
So, shares are up 8.4%. 4% with a
positive outlook. Also giving a positive
outlook is Seagate Technologies also
beating for the current quarter too.
[music] Uh for them again it is a story
of demand in AI. They don't necessarily
do memory. They're more of [music]
hardware storage but again that demand
is off the chart. Shares are up 10.4%
uh staying with tech and AI. Nvidia
shares also higher this morning uh by
just about 1 and a half% [music] just
exceeding that level. Bloomberg had
reported a couple weeks ago that China
was in the process [music] of starting
to approve H200 chips for big China tech
companies. Well, reports this morning
suggest that that approval has happened
and [music] the likes of Bite Dance,
Alibaba, those big tech companies have
indeed gotten their approval for H200
chips. So again, [music] those shares
rallying in the pre-market. John
>> Danny, thank you. More from Danny in the
next hour. On our radar this morning,
SoftBank [music] doubling down on its
Open AI investment. sources telling us
here at Bloomberg, SoftBank is in talks
to invest as much as 30 billion in the
chat GBT maker. SoftBank is one of
OpenAI's largest shareholders with an
11% stake. Elsewhere, SML shares trading
higher at the pre-market after smashing
fourth quarter order estimates as the AI
race fuels demand. The company behind
chipmaking machines also announcing
plans to cut about 1,700 jobs, aiming to
streamline the organization. And
finally, President Donald Trump
indicating he's comfortable with the
dollar at multi-year lows, saying,
quote, "The dollar's doing great." This
following the greenback's steepest
one-day drop since last year's tariff
roll out. The president's comments
adding fuel to the dollar's losses.
>> Yeah. Immediately, you saw that New
Yorker reaction after the president was
talking about how other economies like
China and Japan have devalued. We've
heard him talk about this, not even just
last year, but on the campaign trail in
2020 2016 as well. Well, the president
has talked about how a weaker currency,
although he loves the idea of a strong
dollar, a weaker currency actually helps
a US manufacturing base, and that goes
hand inand what they are trying to
achieve with the tariffs. Last year was
tariff wars. This is the start of, I
think, an incredible FX war we're going
to see play out.
>> What do you think the Treasury
Secretary's position is on some of the
comments and the way they were
interpreted in the last 24 hours?
>> I don't know if he would describe it as
the president having the ability to make
the dollar go up or down like a yo-yo.
That that's what the president's words
were. No one wants a stronger currency
right now, apart from maybe the
Japanese.
>> That's right.
>> And maybe that's why something might be
able to get done on that front. Let's
turn to the Federal Reserve. The central
bank widely expected to hold interest
rates steady today. The former Kansas
City Fed President Thomas Honik writing,
"There appears to be little need for
further monetary easing. If the Fed were
to cut rates, it would lose
credibility." Thomas joins us now for
more. Thomas, welcome to the program.
Let's talk about why so many people
aren't really looking forward to
anything happening later on this
afternoon. It's the bounce back in jobs,
the decline in unemployment. Thomas, how
much weight should they put on the most
recent labor market data?
>> Well, I think they should obviously put
some uh weight on that because that is
the that is the data. So, you do look at
that, but I think more importantly, they
need to look further than that because
this is number one, as I've said before,
an election year. Uh we're coming off a
strong economy. Fiscal policy is
stimulative and the Fed and the
president has talked about increasing
defense spending even further. So that
would be stimulative. Uh tax reductions
are in place. Monetary policy is easy.
It's accommodative. It's real rates are
less than 1%. I think that's forgotten.
And the Fed is now in quantitative
easing again. You know, on the order of
$40 billion a month. That's a big that's
a big push of liquidity into the
marketplace. So those are all
stimulative. So there's there's an
enormous amount going on. And then you
have the dollar, which you're just
talking about. um the the president
talking it down almost if if I can say
that. Um so [clears throat]
there there's so much stimula in place.
We're in an inflationary boom right now
and I think inflation not immediately
but down the road may be an issue. So
the question is obvious obviously you
know will they uh cut later and I think
the pressure will be on them to cut from
the administration and perhaps others
the market even but I think it would be
a an inflationary mistake for the long
term.
>> Well Thomas let's get into that. Why do
you think they should be so
uncomfortable with the outlook for
inflation when so many people are
pointing to the disinflationary forces
coming out of say shelter for the year
ahead? Where would you push back?
>> [clears throat]
>> Well, first of all, shelter is uh is one
of the areas that is has always shown
some slowing there. But [clears throat]
the fact of the matter is I think
there's already efforts in in way in the
administration to boost uh housing um
that in the short term that's even got
to be inflationary and in the long run
given the amount of depending on the
amount of stimulus put in could also
further that. So yes, it right now has
been holding inflation down, but there's
so many other things pushing inflation
up, including the the stock market, the
wealth effects going on. Those are
things not to be ignored, I think. So
you have to be careful with with what
one thing you focus on. There's so many
more things in play right now.
>> So Thomas, there is some deep skepticism
about the administration's ability to
turn around some of these stories. Is
your message, don't bet against them.
Take them seriously. They could see some
results this year. t take them seriously
because they are determined to be
reelected. They're determined to put as
much stimulus in to keep this economy
strong and they'll risk inflation uh in
the in the desire to get the economy
keep the economy strong and high and
people optimistic.
>> Thomas, when you talk about inflation, I
noticed you haven't mentioned tariffs,
something that was a huge debate last
year. Do you see impact of tariffs
starting to hit the economy and
potentially being inflationary?
I I think much of the inflation part of
it has has been mitigated. Some of it's
been passed through. Yes, there's more
to come and uh and yes, it will add, but
it I [clears throat] don't think it's
the main story anymore. First of all,
Trump is back and forth on tariffs
depending on where the economy is uh and
his own political goals. So I yes I I do
keep an eye on that but it's the broader
issues that I think really require more
attention the most attention from the
markets and from the consumer today.
>> Neil Dada blew up my email this morning
talking about the Amazon job losses. We
are seeing 16,000 announced this morning
but also UPS in the last 24 hours.
They're cutting 30 30,000 jobs as it
moves away from Amazon. Now this isn't
in the BLS data coming out. This is what
companies and corporate America are
telling you. At this point, do you think
it would be necessary that for the Fed
to still have that concern about shoring
up the labor market?
>> Well, the Fed will have that concern. I
mean, Pal has made it one of his major
issues. I think it will be a factor, but
I think at this point um it it can't
drive the it can't should not be driving
the Fed policy. Now, there will be
pressure on them around this. I don't
don't take that away at all, but I don't
think that should drive policy. I think
they really have to look at just how
much other stimulus is in the economy
because monetary policy really can't
solve [clears throat] really can't solve
the uh short-term uh employment
situation given that the structural
changes taking place in this economy.
And so it's it's an important factor. I
don't want to dismiss it at all, but
it's not always in the Fed's uh shall we
say lane [clears throat] to be focusing
only on unemployment with so much uh uh
other stimulus coming into the economy.
And look [clears throat] at gold 5,300
going up. Uh these are these are
inflationary uh indications that you
should not ignore as a central bank.
>> Thomas, when you look at the bond market
though, why do you think you're not
seeing a corresponding pick up in bond
yields?
Well, [clears throat] because the the
Fed's adding $40 billion a month of new
money into the system. There's downward
pressure from that that's got to be
acknowledged. It should be acknowledged.
And so that's part of why you're seeing
this suppression uh in the yield curve
to some extent. And I think it should
not be ignored. It's there. It's real.
Uh and the Fed will keep it up. And they
talk about it being temporary through
the tax season. Given the amount of debt
in the economy that has to be financed,
two trillion new debt, the Fed is going
to be under enormous pressure and it so
far has agreed uh to buy some of that
debt at a fairly good clip per month.
>> Thomas, whoever gets nominated to be the
next Fed chair is going to be under
[clears throat] even more pressure. Can
we talk about how unruly that committee
might be?
[clears throat]
>> Well, that committee is a very polite
committee. Yes. Uh but there are going
to be people who uh are are very
concerned about the the amount of
stimulus already into the economy. Uh
and I think I think we're going to see
that um you know that's going to play
out inside it. But I think they will
stay with the with the uh uh POW
leadership at the moment. Uh and I think
Pal is going to be on hold for a while
if to the extent that he can unless
there's a shock or some surprise and
then Pal will quickly uh change. But
without a surprise or shock, I don't see
the committee, even though they'll talk
about it inside what the long run is,
they won't they won't change direction
at this point.
>> Hey Thomas, good to see you and my
apologies for stepping on you at the end
there. Thank you, sir. Thomas, thank
you. The former Kansas City Fed
president wank in on the politics and a
policy.
>> So, he's really anchoring his debate on
how the Fed should look at this because
of fiscal stimulus coming out of
Washington this year. It's a midterm
election year. they run or run it hot,
which is why he's so concerned about
inflation. I was really struck that when
he talks about inflation, he's not
really thinking about tariffs. He says
that's not really the issue. The issue
is the policies this administration is
talking about. Whether it's housing,
whether it's tariff div tariff dividend
checks, they want to run the economy hot
going into this election.
>> It's the boost to growth so many are
expecting. Equity futures right now, by
the way, positive on the S&P 500 adding
to the record highs we printed just
yesterday. With an update on stories
worldwide, let's check in with you with
your Bloomberg brief. Hey, Yah.
>> Hi, John. We're seeing shares of AT&T
rising 4% in the pre-market after
reporting fourth quarter earnings that
beat on both the top and bottom lines.
AT&T's board also approving additional
[music] share buybacks as it expects to
repurchase about $8 billion of common
stock in 2026. As for the full year,
AT&T posting a better thanex expected
EPS [music]
forecast. Meanwhile, in Texas, Governor
Greg Abbott ordering state agencies and
public universities to immediately stop
new H1B [music] visa hiring for skilled
foreign workers. Abbott says the program
has been used in ways that disadvantage
American workers. The halt will last
through May of next [music] year. The
governor's order does not affect the
private sector. And Apple CEO Tim Cook
is weighing in on the fatal shooting of
ICU nurse Alex Prey in Minneapolis. In a
memo on Apple's [music] employee
website, Cook writing he's quote
heartbroken by the events and calling
for calm. Cook adding that he discussed
the matter with President Trump earlier
[music] this week. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, going for gold.
>> Gold wins everything. I'm not going to
short gold. It doesn't take that much
buying to make the price of gold go up.
That conversation up next with James
Steele of HSBC live from New York City.
[music] You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
Equity [music]
futures right now the S&P 500 shaping up
as follows. Positive by a third of 1% up
by [music] 9/10 on the NASDAQ alltime
highs coming into Wednesday under
Savannah this morning. Records [music]
elsewhere going for gold. Gold wins
everything. I'm not going to short gold
for a time of yes rising [music] equity
prices. Yes, risk on in one sense. Um,
and yes, low volatility, but um,
historically very high uncertainty
economically and geopolitically. Um,
people are are trying to they're just
getting they're just falling in love
with a very old-fashioned solution to
that problem. And it doesn't take that
much buying to make the price of gold go
up.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. Gold
surging to a new all-time high,
extending its record rally on continued
dollar weakness. James Still of HSBC
writing, "Gold remains supported by
geopolitical risks and may rally further
if the dollar weakens again." James
joins us now for more. Jim, good to see
you.
>> Good morning.
>> Thanks for being here. What a turnaround
of this story the last four years or so,
this rip roaring rally. What's aiding
the new leg, the fresh leg of this leg
higher?
>> Well, you know, in all the time that
I've been covering the gold market, the
same 12 or 15 factors drive it. uh the
trick to analyzing it and trying to
figure out the direction is which of
those is in the driver's seat and in the
last few years geopolitical risk has
risen to the top and I think if you if
you look at the you know we've done
studies on the geopolitical risk index
and the correlation and what we found in
the last few years is that unlike
periods before gold would give back the
gains it made on a particular
geopolitical event now it's not it's
it's it's retaining a good portion of So
then it then goes up again when the next
event occurs. And that's why we've been
able to get above 3,000, above four, and
now and and now above five.
>> Is there something about the changing
character of those geopolitical risks?
Can you pinpoint something and say it
was Russia is what happened there? And
because of that, there's a new flaw for
gold.
>> Well, it was kicked off by the uh
invasion of Ukraine. This current leg of
the rally dates back to 2022 with the
invasion of Ukraine and subsequently
very heavy central bank buying later
that year associated with those
geopolitical risks. Now since then we've
had a number of other uh uh uh incidents
and you know pick the one we go from one
to the other. So we don't seem to have
uh there's Iran, there was Venezuela,
there's Ukraine. um and and without
putting too much emphasis on any one of
them, I think it's the string of events
and the cacophony of them uh that has
kept the risk level high and sent money
into uh uh both a hard asset and a safe
haven asset and that's gold.
>> So, where do we go from here? We're a
we're past $5,000 of Troy Allens, which
many people were expecting us to get
through through at the end of this year.
We're not even at the end of January.
How much higher can it actually go?
>> Well, that's right. And we had said a
while ago that gold would uh get to
$5,000. Um it's done that as you pointed
out very early in the year. Um we're now
looking and then we will we've looked at
5,500 in our latest research, but that
that is also quite quite close. Um so
you've got to take into account I mean
this near parabolic moving gold does
invite volatility
and it does invite profit taking on any
positive news that might come out be it
on any any any one of a number of fronts
something could happen to cool this a
little bit so we are going to see
because we have a lot of new money
coming into the market that's going to
be volatile it's going to be prone to
liquidation so we're going to see
frequent pullbacks so I think rather
than saying pinpointing an exact number
where it can go. I think what we've got
to be prepared for is increased
increased volatility. We we already saw
selling into this rally overnight and
yet the market's gone back up again.
>> Recent pullbacks or a recent pullback
could be something like potentially
announcing a peace deal in Ukraine. But
isn't the central bank buying enough to
bolster where the price is right now?
>> Well, no. And and I don't want to
attribute too much to the central banks.
um they kicked off the rally and they've
sustained the early part of it, but uh
we think their buying was maybe a little
less last year than it was the year
before. Um now we've got a whole range
of institutions coming in and and and
many of them are agnostic to the actual
price of gold. It's more of a hedge. Um
because if you have an equity portfolio
um you're looking for a portfolio
diversifier. uh if you think and I'm not
saying there will be a correction please
don't don't think I am but but you've
got to you've got to count on the
possibility of one and if that's the
case then you're going to look for
something uh that that that is not
correlated with paper assets and that
and that's gold.
>> Is there evidence that in this regime
that's the case given that at the moment
it appears to have a positive
correlation with equities. Gold has had
this massive rally at the same time
equities have kept rallying too. Well,
that's right. And that's some of that
money coming in. You've got to bear in
mind that gold, you know, normally this
doesn't matter, but gold is actually
quite small compared to all the
financial markets. All the gold above
ground is something like something over
1 2% value of all the financial markets.
So all we need is leakage coming in from
those markets to actually send us up.
And silver and platinum are even
smaller. So you think about the money
that could move them that could never
have moved the dollar, could never have
moved the fixed income or equity
markets.
>> What is gold beginning to replace in
portfolios? What are you noticing?
>> Well, it's not so much, I think, a
replacement as an addition. Um, I think
what you're seeing now is a lot of
portfolio managers are going to allocate
a certain percentage to gold whereas
they would have had no allocation or or
very very low earlier on. Same same with
central banks by the way. the allocation
that many of them in the in of non OECD
central banks I'm talking about
principally are giving more allocation
to gold some of them like Poland have
announced a very large a very high
allocation
>> I have a theory and I'm going to share
it with you and I'd love your feedback
on it you've been doing this a long long
time traditionally gold bugs were
considered followers of a religion and
they were considered almost slightly
crazy and I just wonder if the arrival
of Bitcoin over the last decade and the
dominance of the crypto conversation has
almost legitimized gold as an asset
class in an unattended way. Would you
put any weight on that?
>> Shift in the last few years.
>> That's an interesting way to look at it
and and I hadn't thought about it that
before. You know what we've concentrated
on is looking to see if Bitcoin has
encroached upon gold and we cannot see
any cannibalization in the gold market
by by Bitcoin. So, we don't see a drop
in in trading globally in gold and the
demand for gold because of that. Now,
you pointed out there's always been a
fringe element in the gold market. Uh,
and it's basically founded on distrust
of government. Um, which we've never
been associated with that that that that
branch. Um, but as other things come up,
I what I think you're you're pointing to
is gold has moved back into being more
mainstream. Many asset managers, many
portfolio managers who who have never
contemplated buying gold are are now
becoming acquainted with the bullion
market. So, in that sense, you're right.
It has moved back to the center.
>> Do the two trade in parallel? We're not
seeing the same rip we're seeing in gold
as we are in Bitcoin. Why is that?
>> No, they don't. And and there's a
different profile um in gold. There's a
different demographic. Uh and and and
also, you know, think of gold at its
essence is the physicality and the
tangibility of it. And that's why it's
the only commodity currency that
survived into the electronic age. And
despite the digitalization of the world,
yet we yet we we we crave something
physical, something hard. And Bitcoin
does not offer that. Crypto, I shouldn't
emphasize them, but crypto does not
emphasize that. And I'm not saying
crypto is good or bad. I'm just saying
that gold is different. And you don't
get a parallel. and we haven't seen any
statistical correlation between the
trading.
>> Are you seeing any signs that this has
gone too far in other metals, palladium,
platinum, etc.
>> Well, yes. I think you could make that
case for silver. Um the silver uh if you
look at the gold silver ratio, which is
the number of ounces it takes to buy 1
ounce of gold, um it moved to between 70
and 80 for most of my career. Um uh
which is, as you pointed out, very long
time. My hair was the color of gold. It
is now the color
>> You've still got it. So, you're doing
well. [laughter]
>> Um, it went out to 106 in October. Um,
and then silver has rallied and it's now
around 45. So, that would imply that
silver is very expensive and I don't
think we quite have the same re
geopolitical and other reasons to buy
silver. So I I suspect that that that
the canary in the coal mine might be
more the white metals who which are much
smaller and have also moved up very
quickly. I mean there's good reasons for
silver to be strong but it's very very
high right now. So I would keep an eye
on those and and see how that instead of
see if the tail wags the dog a bit.
>> Got it. Jim Clinic as always great to
lean on your experience. Thanks for
being here.
>> Thank you sir. James Still there of
HSBC. Up next on the program, Stuart
Kaiser of City, Tobin [music] Marcus of
Wolf Research, Mandep Singh of Bloomberg
Intelligence, Jonathan Pingle of UPS.
The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance is up next.
[music]
We think that the Fed can cut rates a
few times this year.
>> It's time to take a breath on these rate
cuts.
>> They're in a holding pattern given the
strength in the economy.
>> There'll be a doubish meeting even
though they won't cut.
>> Hopefully, [clears throat] we see a
little bit more guidance from the Fed.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
[music]
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. for our
audience worldwide. The second dair of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now and
your price action your scores look like
this. Alltime highs coming into
Wednesday. We add some weight to the
rally. Up a [music] third of 1% on the
S&P on the NASDAQ up by 0.9%.
Big tech having a big run going into
earnings after the closing b. We'll get
to that in just a moment. The fireworks,
the drama in foreign exchange. Check it
out. The dollar showing just a little
bit of strength after 4 days of
weakness. the dollar yesterday, the
biggest one day drop on DXY going back
to August of 2025. The president's words
[music] not helping the situation.
You'll hear from the president again a
little bit later on today. You'll also
hear from Chairman Pal and then you get
the results, Meta, Microsoft, Tesla
after the closing bout.
>> So, everyone I know is so excited about
the tech results and what is going on
with the AI trade and we can see more
legs higher when it comes to that. But
[music] for the dollar, this is really
incredibly interesting is how this year
is shaping up. It comes after the rate
track checks the [music] New York Fed
did in terms of what is going on with
the dollar yen trade. The president
saying I'm the person that likes a
strong dollar but weak dollars make you
a hell lot more money. That's what he
said last year and that's what we're
seeing almost [music] an action happen
this year. And he's basically saying I
can make it go up or down. His words
like a yo-yo. And the market took that
as like they're not going to get in the
way of this and they actually might be
encouraging this. [music]
>> Yeah. There's a phrase pushing on an
open door. This is where the market was
leaning anyway. I'm not sure how much
weight I'm going to put on the
president's words just yet. Want to hear
what he's got to say about it if he's
asked about it again later on today. And
also, where's the Treasury Secretary and
all of this? I'd love to hear from
Treasury [music] Secretary Scott Besson
about whether this is something they
actually want to see.
>> Well, potentially he's having calls with
his Japanese counterpart [music] when it
comes to the Treasury Secretary or at
least at this part maybe doing the final
interviews from who's going to be the
[music] next Fed chair. But this is
something this administration is leaning
into. And what's so interesting, it's
just the dollar right [music] now.
There's no movement right now in bond
yields. You have equities again at
all-time high. It is just the dollar
that is showing weakness. And this is
going to be incredibly challenging
[music] for our big trading partners.
>> I've heard the case. We've all heard the
case. It's sell America. But you look
elsewhere. Small caps outperforming.
Doesn't sound like it's sell [music]
America. It sounds like it's by the
global economy right now. Cost be at a
record highs. South Korean equities have
absolutely ripped. That's usually
something you'd see alongside a better
growth profile for the global economy.
The Aussie [music] dollar outperforming.
That's the strongest currency over the
last 12 months or so. that would speak
to the same thing. Copper as well. All
the things these things are lining up
for a better outlook for the year ahead.
>> And when it comes to the Aussie dollar,
they are definitely related to what's
going on as you say in copper and the
commodity complex moving higher. Not
just the precious metals. [music] We
just talked to Jim Steel, but what's
going on with gold and how that is just
absolutely on a tear, but the entire
complex because you need these materials
[music] if you are going to have
manufacturing buildout when it comes to
AI. And that's why today what is so
interesting, what people are looking
forward to [music] more than the Fed
chair speaking is actually what does
Meta and Microsoft have to say.
>> What a run for gold. [music] Look at
this. 5260 right now this morning up
another 1.5%. Wasn't the year- end price
target from Goldman a week today. A week
ago today when they came out and said
5,400 and like we're right there.
>> And an individual at RBC is talking
about 7,000 [music] at the end of this
year. I loved your comment about
Bitcoin. I actually saw a meme on
Twitter where this young kid who's like
[music] I'm going to beat the market.
I'm investing everything in crypto and
then it's a picture of his grandma who's
like no I told you you should have gone
with the old school gold and silver and
you would have outperformed. [music]
>> Gold is on quite a run that's for sure.
More on that later this hour. Also
catching up with Stuart Kaiser of City
with stocks at record highs. Tobin
Marcus of Wolf Research on the future of
Fed leadership and Jonathan Pingle of
UPS with a rate decision looming this
afternoon. We begin this hour with
stocks holding near all-time highs ahead
of MAX7 results. Stuart Kaiser of City
writing, "We continue to see upside in
cyclicals ahead of earnings and key
macro data in early February." Stuart
joins us now for more. Stu, good
morning.
>> Hi, good morning.
>> We've seen a lot of that outperformance
already so far here today. Small caps
outperforming large. The Cosby, we
talked about South Korean equities.
There seems to be a cyclical tilt to a
lot of the price action. What's
happening?
>> Yeah, 100%. I I think clients were were
really geared up for the the stimulus to
hit the economy to start the year. we
got that nice sort of turn lower in the
unemployment rate which kind of kicked
off the the consumer cyclicals trade and
I think it's to your point pushing on an
open door that was a door that was wide
open and and people are happy to kind of
be kind of be pushing right through it.
You know the Fed's data dependent so
that adds a little bit of uncertainty
but honestly we haven't talked about all
uh tax refunds you know we're going to
get that data in the next couple weeks
and if those tax refunds look the way
people expect them to look then you know
we do see another kind of at least leg
or half a leg higher in these cyclicals
in early February. Let's pick up on the
dollar weakness that so many people are
talking about this morning. We've all
seen the headlines sell America. I want
to interrogate the base case right now
and and the narrative. I want your
thoughts on this. Are we looking at
running away from sort of policy fears
or just embracing growth hopes
worldwide?
>> Yeah, I mean hopefully it's growth hopes
because if we run away from policy fears
that that's quite a different impulse on
the market. You know the the Japan the
Japanese yen thing sort of hits the
market in two ways I think. one is you
have that long-end bond yield which is
about policy and it's about fiscal and
and the fact that that started to run
away I think definitely got people's
attention you know the y again carry
trade is more in the front end that that
short-term rates that's more about risk
sentiment and leverage so I think those
two things are acting on sort of
different parts of the market frankly
I'd be a little bit more worried about
the long end bond yields um you know the
short end leverage stuff can be painful
but it kind of works itself out pretty
quick if if we really get that sort of
long end bond yield moving and we've
already seen it happen in bones and in
guilt and and now in JGBs, if that
spreads over to the US, that's a bigger
issue to me.
>> Any signs that's happening, though,
because I've been very surprised by how
insulated the global debt market seems
to be in the face of what developed in
Japan just last week.
>> No, I I agree. It it is it's pretty
encouraging, I think, that I mean, look,
we got an eight or 10 basis point move
in US30. So, it it hit the US. It just
the market seemed to seem to absorb it
pretty well. Um, if if you look at, you
know, what has kicked these things off
in Japan, it was really about, you know,
rolling back some taxes. That's fiscal.
in in the UK it was really about
spending it was fiscal. So it seems like
you don't know when it's going to happen
but there is exposure to these fiscal
headlines and you know hopefully in the
US we don't experience it but I just
wouldn't write that one off as a risk.
>> So these are basically big structural
moves that you think at some point could
impact the United States.
>> You know that was yes but we've been
wrong about it for six months. So I
don't [laughter] want to you know don't
want to don't want to toot our own horn
on this one. But yes I mean look you
have you have real fiscal issues. I
mean, there was a headline, all the
senators getting elected today will be
in the Senate when Social Security runs
out of money, right? So, these are big
structural issues that need to be dealt
with, but to be fair, equity markets
have rallied through it. Bond volatility
until recently has been been pretty kind
of well-contained. So, we do think it's
a real risk, but you know, it doesn't
mean you can't solve that risk, but we
do we do think that's kind of a sneaky
risk in the background, and we still
like owning some rates volatility just
in case on this.
>> You mentioned the tax refunds. We spoke
to Tom Honik who was talking about this
fiscal impulse which he thinks we're
going to be having a running a hot
economy but also that's going to impact
inflation. How do you view how the tax
refunds actually might impact the real
economy when it comes to maybe sticky
inflation?
>> Yeah, it's it's a great question. I mean
average tax refund call it $2,900 over
the last 15 years. There's rumors it
could be $1,000 higher. So you're
looking at 30% higher average tax
refunds. You know our economists have
that about half a percentage point GDP
impact. We have gotten questions from
clients about back half of this year. Do
we start to see inflation turn higher?
It's not the house view um from our from
our economists on the inflation side.
But look, if you if the tariffs stay in
place and if you layer on top of that
some fiscal, it is a risk. But I think
for right now, people are focused on
what do I do in the front half of the
year? And you know, talk to me about
midterms and inflation when I hit June
or July,
>> January.
>> Well, let's talk about the first half of
the year then. We've talked about the
disconnects. In fact, this show has been
dominated by discussions about
disconnects or perceived disconnects.
Here's another one. You've got a better
outlook for consumption. You're not
alone. I get it. Tax refunds, all of
that. But then you survey the consumer
and they couldn't be more depressed
about the present situation. The
conference board came out with data
yesterday. The worst read in more than
10 years. And that includes the
pandemic, by the way. And this from Dana
Peterson, a good friend of this program
over the years. Confidence collapsed in
January. Consumer concerns about both
the present situation and expectations
for the future deepened. They're looking
at the labor market and don't seem too
comfortable with things. And yet here we
are on Wall Street projecting a better
outlook for consumption. Are they just
getting it wrong?
>> Well, I mean, you talk about a
disconnect. Look at the party divide in
most of those consumer consumer survey
stuff. So, it wouldn't surprise me if
you know the lingering stuff from the
government shutdown as well as a lot of
the policy uncertainty isn't hurting
consumer confidence a bit there as well.
I mean, look at this. We also get all
obsessed about this rise in the
unemployment rate. It's the level is
4.4%. There there are very few countries
in the world that wouldn't take four
4.4% unemployment rate. Um and then this
also gets to that sort of K-shaped
economy, you know, idea. Is it is it
asset owners and high income folks that
are really benefiting and you're seeing
kind of a lot of pressure on that lower
end consumer and you could imagine how
that would flow through to kind of
weaker and and lower confidence. You
know, the question the hope I think is
from the big beautiful bill etc. is that
you're providing stimulus to the low and
middle inome consumer to kind of close
that K down a little bit. So I I think
what you're seeing is a little bit of
the K-shape and a little bit of policy
uncertainty really impacting that
negative sense of
>> stick with small caps. Stick with
cyclicals.
>> Definitely cyclical. Small cap wasn't
our favor coming in. It's it's obviously
worked quite a bit. You know, our view
on small cap is last year it was all
about rate cuts. You're getting these
insurance or risk management cuts into a
decent economy. If the Fed is now data
dependent, they're not cutting really
unless you get weak growth data. So
really to me small cap has gone from a
rates trade to a growth trade this year.
So we like yeah we we we like that. We
like the consumer side of things and
frankly coming into the year our view is
own the underowned traditional cyclicals
energy materials potentially banks. The
banks hasn't really worked out at the
large cap side. It's it's worked more at
the lower cap side but yeah we still
like the cyclical trade and and if that
puts you in IWM no problem with that.
>> Do you think the White House has
disrupted the banks trade?
>> Uh they're they're doing their best.
>> Is that has that thrown that trade off
for you? Um, look, let's see when we
come out of earnings how how those large
cap banks do. It's easy to say that the
credit card cap and things like that are
negative for banks, but the deregulatory
push is is equally powerful. Um, our M&A
targets basket has just been a monster
year to date, which suggests that people
are pretty excited about, you know, uh,
deal deal calendar activity and etc. So,
I I wouldn't write off the large cap
banks banks just yet, but yeah, there
there is a policy there.
>> Earnings argument. I want to make the
valuation argument. I think it's
difficult right now for people to invest
in the banks when they know for now at
least some of those stocks have got a
target on their back and they can wake
up on any given day with a new
announcement by the president that's
going to disrupt that trade.
>> I think that's fair but if you look at
like regional banks and the smaller
banks have done fine. Where is the
target? The target is on the large cap
guys. So you know it it it is a bit of a
headwind without a doubt. What you hope
is the deregulatory push the deal
calendar and frankly an accelerating US
economy. You know banks are a
domestically facing cyclical. You hope
they get a benefit from that. But to
your point, I mean, what would you
rather be in materials owning exposure
to silver and gold right now or in
banks? You probably go with materials
and um and frankly the consumer trade to
us is much more short short-termish.
That is get this tax refund data enjoy
for two to three weeks and then probably
kind of close that trade out.
>> Materials where the oval office could
take an equity stake versus banks,
Jonathan, where the oval office is
basically going to be throwing darts at
you even if we don't see legislation for
this interest.
>> Got any companies in mind on who's next?
to the president. Thanks a sting.
[laughter] You don't have to answer
that, Stu. We'll let you go. It's good
to see you, buddy.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Thank you, mate. Stuart Kiter there of
City. Equities at the moment up a third
of 1% on the S&P with an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump saying
the reshuffleling of the leadership
running his deportation efforts in
Minnesota is going well. The president
saying his borders are Tom H. Homeman
has been meeting with Minnesota's
governor and the mayor of Minneapolis.
Trump also saying Homeland Security
Secretary Christy Gnome will remain in
her post. Meanwhile, JP Morgan telling
its investment bankers to [music] work
harder to close the gap with rivals on
M&A. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg, the co-heads of global
banking [music] say the group
underperformed last year. JP Morgan's
investment banking fees unexpectedly
fell in the fourth quarter as revenue
from M&A advisory [music] declined. and
demand for longduration Japanese bonds
rebounding at the latest auction with
[music] the 40-year bond drawing the
strongest interest since last March. The
results helping to stabilize sentiment
in the long end of the Japanese yield
curve, [music] but strategists are
warning that volatility is likely to
persist until the country's next
election on February 8th. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yahara in
about 30 minutes. Up next on the
program, awaiting the next Fed share.
Interest rates are now at the lowest
level in three years. By the way, when
we have a great Fed chairman, I think
we're going to have one. I'll announce
it pretty soon. Uh you'll see rates come
down a lot.
>> Up next, Hoben Marcus of Wolf Research
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[music]
2 p.m. Eastern time this afternoon, a
Federal Reserve interest rate decision.
The chairman will be speaking 30 minutes
after that at 2:30 [music] Eastern time.
The main event though, I think for a lot
of people in the equity market are the
earnings later on this afternoon after
the closing bound. You'll hear [music]
from Microsoft, Meta, and Tesla. As for
the Federal Reserve, under Savannah this
morning, awaiting the next Fed chair.
>> Despite a bad Fed chairman, a guy that
has no, we call him too late. He's too
late, Jerome. Too late, pal. He's too
late. He wants to keep rates as high as
possible. Despite that, we've driven
rates down. You know, when you're really
good, you can get them down despite
everything cuz ultimately it just sort
of follows nature. Mortgage interest
rates are now at the lowest level in
three years. By the way, will we have a
great Fed chairman? I think we're going
to have one. I'll announce it pretty
soon. Uh you'll see rates come down a
lot.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Trump gearing up to announce
his pick for the central bank's next
chair as policy makers prepare to make
the first rate decision of the year a
little bit later this afternoon.
Boomber's Tyler Kendall joins us now for
more. Tyler, we've been waiting. It's
like this rolling one week, two weeks.
It'll happen in one week, two weeks. Is
it going to happen anytime soon?
Well, John, at this point, your guess is
as good as mine because we've often
heard conflicting statements from
President Trump. Sometimes signaling
that he has made his decision and then
at other times saying that the process
is indeed ongoing. Perhaps we could get
an announcement soon, though very likely
we will hear from President Trump, at
least when it comes to the FOMC's
decision later today, considering he has
not let up on his criticism of the
current chair Jerome Powell. And today's
postmeating press conference is going to
be Powell's first public encounter with
reporters since he was served grand jury
subpoenas related to the Department of
Justice's investigation into the Fed's
renovations to its headquarters here in
Washington. And I bring that up because
that has of course complicated matters
on Capitol Hill for Republicans as we do
wait this announcement on the potential
pick to lead the central bank. As of
now, it is our understanding that
President Trump is still weighing those
top four contenders, including the NEC
director Kevin Hasset, who had been seen
as a front runner, though worth
mentioning the president has voiced
concerns in recent weeks about losing a
key messenger of his economic agenda.
Also on the list, former Fed Governor
Kevin Worsh, current Fed Governor
Christopher Waller, then also Black
Rockck's Rick Reer, who's gained some
traction in recent weeks, according to
people familiar with the matter. sources
telling Bloomberg News earlier this
month that Reader may be seen as
somebody who could be confirmed more
easily after Senator Tom Tillis, a
Republican on the Senate Banking
Committee who has been on this program
before, has vowed to block any nominee
until the legal matter against Jerome
Powell is resolved. Though, John, I will
point out early today on the Bloomberg
terminal, a brand new story analyzing
FEC records shows that Reer has donated
politically to some of President Trump's
rivals on both sides of the aisle.
Perhaps that may complicate matters
going forward, but at this point,
anything could happen.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. I'm pleased Tyler keeps going
back to the senator from North Carolina.
His comments are so so important here.
It's not about the man. It's not about
the individual. For him, it's about the
process. So, if you're sitting here
thinking the president could announce
this morning, and let's say he did. When
you start thinking about the
confirmation process, the senator from
North Carolina is telling you he's not
going to get up and open the door and
let people through anytime soon.
>> No. Which is why if you're the president
of the United States and you heard our
interview with Senator Tom Tillis,
you're thinking, "Why would I make an
announcement so soon, you want to
potentially wait till you know the DOJ
investigation to Powell is going to be
wrapped up cuz Tillis is not moving
until that moment."
>> Toby Marcus of Wolf Research has this to
say. Rick Reer is now viewed as the odds
on Fed chair favorite. We're
unconvinced. We think both Kevin are
still strong possibilities. Tobin joins
us now for more. Tobin, I want your view
on what is just holding things up here.
Why is the president dragging his feet
when he's told us for quite a while he
knows who it is?
>> Well, I you know I think he's still
trying to find the best option among a
set of options, none of whom offer
exactly what he wants. Uh reader, the
current um perceived favorite has a lot
to recommend him, but he certainly is
not a Trump loyalist by any stretch. Um
as Tyler was just discussing, there's
this issue about his political donations
with him now sort of in the spotlight
for the first time. I think you're going
to see uh knives come out for him uh a
little bit, Larry Cuddlo yesterday
published an op-ed essentially saying
don't pick him, pick one of the Kevin.
Um and you know I think in a similar way
to how when Hasset was the perceived
front runner that's when the White House
started to get push back about uh the
potential bond market concerns you could
see there. So you know I think he's
cycling through his options and doesn't
see anything that he's completely
compelled by.
>> I loved your note reiterating the tea
leaves when it comes to the tea leaves.
to the discussion Jonathan and I just
had about Senator Tom Tillis. Do you
think that is why this administration
doesn't feel any urgency right now to
have their pick?
>> I think Trump is mostly I think the
biggest holdup is the decision-m process
itself. And I I do think that Trump is
still trying to find, you know, the the
best person with none of them being
perfect. Uh, you know, that being said,
I take tell us completely at face value
that the the probe by DC US attorney
biro is going to need to be wrapped up
uh and resolved definitively before he's
going to be willing to let any of these
people through. I think the view that
reader has some confirmation edge is
basically wrong. I think once you get
till satisfied about that probe into
Powell, none of these individuals are
going to have any trouble getting
through the Senate Republican caucus.
Hasset's the person that markets have
raised concern about, but he's been
working in Republican politics for
decades. He has very strong positive
relationships across the Senate
Republican caucus. So, you know, the
notion that that you could get reader
through but not some alternative, I
think is fairly wrong-headed.
>> You're pointing to something I read this
morning in the Wall Street Journal about
the fact the president is looking for
something maybe he won't ever find.
You're talking about this perfect
candidate, this unicorn. What does that
entail? Can you define for us who that
would be in front of this president's
eyes?
Yeah, I mean he just last week at Davos
was very forward and very explicit about
wanting loyalty. He specifically
complained about disloyalty in those
words. He talked about all these people
seem great until you nominate them and
then they start making decisions that
you don't like. They start, you know,
hiking rates when when he thinks it's
inappropriate. That's the exact
criticism he's leveled at Powell who
also came in with sort of
recommendations from Trump's economic
staff but without that person personal
relationship. Um and he of course has
regretted that decision. So, I think he
wants someone who he can rely on in that
way and who's going to listen to his
views as he continues to articulate
them, but also someone who brings, you
know, bond market credibility and
doesn't raise acute concerns about Fed
independence. And those there's a deep
tension between those two.
>> Zen, we've got to keep an eye on the
geopolitics as well. This from the
president just moments ago on social
media, a statement from him. A massive
armada is heading to Iran. It is moving
quickly with great power, enthusiasm,
and purpose. It is a larger fleet headed
by the great aircraft carrier Abraham
Lincoln. than that sent to Venezuela.
Like with Venezuela, it is ready,
willing, and able to rapidly fulfill its
mission and with speed and violence if
necessary. Hopefully, Iran will quickly
come to the table and negotiate a fair
and equitable deal. No nuclear weapons,
one that is good for all parties. Time
is running out. It is truly of the
essence.
>> So, the president is saying he wants
Iran to make a deal. He then also
continues to talk about the fact that
they didn't make a deal and there was
quote operation midnight hammer which we
saw last year. The president right now
is setting almost a red line. Come to
the table or I am prepared and I have my
toys out there in the sea ready to go
and I am prepared to strike if Thrron
does not feel willing to engage.
>> So Ben, how likely is it that we take on
another kind of military front in Iran?
Uh, I think fairly likely. The president
sure seemed like he was leaning towards
intervening when the protests were at
their apex a couple weeks ago. At the
time, I think the lack of military
assets in the region was one of the
obstacles to doing that along with some
concerns from regional allies along
with, I think, some real questions about
what efficacious targets might look
like. Unlike in Midnight Hammer, where
it was very obvious that we were
targeting the nuclear facilities, if
you're trying to degrade their ability
to oppress the the domestic political
opposition, what are you striking?
Police barracks? I like I don't think
anyone really believes that a
decapitation strike against Kamei, if
they can even find him, would result in
regime change. I think ultimately is
what the president wants here. So, you
know, he he sure seems to be um wanting
to strike. I think at a minimum he's
very focused on creating that
optionality and leverage to be able to
pursue a range of options. Um but it
does seem like some kind of strikes
eventually are likely. Tobin, to that
point, even if the United States were to
get rid of Hami, does the regime still
continue?
>> Yeah, I I think the only way that you
see actual regime change, it's kind of
cascading defections among the security
elite. And we've seen no sign of that
whatsoever. Generally, that happens when
they're asked to fire on protesters.
Like, if they refuse to do so, that's
when you can start to see elite
defections. And of course, they just
massacred thousands of civilians who are
protesting in the street. So I think if
we were going to see it, we would have
seen it replacing one person at the the
head of the regime. I don't think
there's any plausible uh scenario by
which that would result in the entire
regime turning over. Tobin, it's good to
see you. Tobin Marcus there of Wolf
Research. Tobin, thank you. Just on that
last point, developments with Iran in
the United States. Equities backing off
from session highs, just trading a
little bit softer in the last few
moments. Also, check out this Deutsche
Bank. Get the chart up and let's have a
look at that stock trading softer over
in Frankfurt, Germany. That stock is
down by close to 3%. Here's our latest
reporting that Deutsche Bank has said
its offices are being inspected by law
enforcement officials. This is the quote
from the bank. We can confirm that the
Frankfurt public prosecutor's office is
on site in our offices. The bank is
cooperating fully with the prosecutor's
office. We cannot comment further.
Reports came from the German news outlet
to Spiegel a little bit earlier on today
that the public prosecutor's office is
conducting a probe into suspected money
laundering against unknown employees of
Deutsche Bank and they were signing
information from the prosecutor's
office. That's the latest on that bank.
Any more information, I'll share it with
you. Deutsche Bank over in Frankfurt,
Germany, trading lower by close to
[music] 3%. Up next on the program,
we'll catch up with Bloomberg's Mandep
Singh ahead of KMAX 7 earnings later on
this afternoon. Plus, Danny has your
morning movers. What a quarter from
ASML. The stock is up by 6%.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Equity futures on the S&P 500 positive
by a quarter of 1% on the S&P on the
NASDAQ up by 0.8 on a Russell up by a
third. Tech doing better. Thank you
ASML. [music] Fantastic results. Those
orders in the fourth quarter just blew
out estimates. That's lifting the whole
AI tech ecosystem, if you will, this
morning, going into earnings from Meta
and Microsoft [music] after the closing
bout. In the bond market, we look like
this. 2-year 10-year bond yields are
just about unchanged on the session so
far. For the Federal Reserve, it's going
to be a snoozer this afternoon in the
news conference, but the focus will be
very much on the politics. There will be
questions, no doubt, from journalists,
repeated questions [music]
about the future of the Fed, the
chairman's future, and his very punchy
address a [music] few weekends back. And
I just hope that the journalist PSA to
you guys, and I know Mike McKe is
prepared for this, when he says no or
gives a very abrupt short answer, please
come back hard with a followup to make
sure you can try to get something out of
the Fed [music] chair. Also, Jonathan,
not just the politics outside the
meeting when the chairman addresses the
press, but also inside the meeting. Anna
Wong, Bloomberg economist, talking about
where does [music] Governor Chris Waller
put his disscent or not? What does he do
when it comes to this rate cut? What
does that mean for his chances [music]
of maybe getting the nod from the
president?
>> After some two-way descent at the last
meeting, and we are going to see some
more descent a little bit later this
afternoon. Let's turn to foreign
exchange. No descent from the president
yesterday regarding the dollar weakness
and that just encouraged another leg
lower weaker this morning. Check out
Euro dollar. This is important. Euro
dollar is actually negative on the
session now. [music] So the euro is
weaker. We breach 120 for a heartbeat
for a couple of minutes and then we got
some push back. This is the question
I've got. Can Europe live with [music]
120? Is it willing to live with 120? And
when I say Europe, I'm really meaning
officials on the ECB. [music] One
official from Austria already pushing
back against where the euro's trading
and talking up the prospect of action
further down the road if this continues
>> because they're concerned. What does
this [music] mean for the European
Union? What does this mean for the Euro
zone's exports? That is why they're
concerned and that's why this year is
going to be dominated potentially by
currency wars. [music] This president
doesn't care if we have a weak dollar.
He thinks it's good for manufacturing
and he thinks it's good for US business.
>> Euro dollar this morning 11980 [music]
on our radar this morning. President
Trump saying he's comfortable with the
dollar's drop. His comments fueling
speculation that the currency is at the
start of a longerterm decline.
>> No, I think it's great. I mean, the
value of the dollar, look at the
business we're doing. No, no. I I'd want
it to be just seek its own level, which
is the fair thing to do. You could have
it I could have it go up or go down like
a yo-yo.
>> The president's remarks driving the
dollar lower, but extending gold's
record-breaking rally to an eighth
consecutive session. What a move over
the last year. the last four years. I
just wonder if the president really
understood what kind of conversation he
was actually engaging with yesterday
when this question was asked.
>> I think potentially traders viewed it as
the president is insinuating he has some
jurisdiction or can have some power over
the dollar with some policies. And I'm
not exactly sure that's what he meant,
but he did say I could make it go up or
down. He said like a yo-yo. Those were
his words. More importantly, he also was
talking about his issues with two
countries. China and Japan. And he says,
"For years I've been fighting them
because they keep wanting to devalue."
And this has to go with things he really
cares about the US trade deficit and
also making sure that the U US has a
strong manufacturing base and that can
actually export those goods.
>> I think it's fair to say also the
president's attention is firmly
elsewhere at the moment. The number one
issue in this country has to be
immigration enforcement and the tension
that's been building over the last week.
That takes us to our next story. The
Senate Majority Leader John Thoon saying
bipartisan talks to avoid a partial
government shutdown are underway.
Democrats are demanding the Department
of Homeland Security be stripped from a
massive funding bill and calling for the
resignation of the DHS head Christie
>> and Senator Lisa Marowski is joining Tom
Tillis with that call. They do not think
that she should be leading DHS right
now. They have been trying to get her on
the Hill, Senator Tillis especially, for
a hearing and it hasn't worked out,
which is why we haven't seen officials
at DHS being able to give in their
hearing or confirmations. Now, Christine
Gnome is set to appear in March and my
question is, will she even be the head
of DHS when it comes to that? Because
this is getting incredibly challenging
for this president. Obviously, he's
putting a lot of attention on this. At
the same time, it's also going to be
very noisy because Democrats are not
going to vote for DHS funding if it's
linked to the appropriations bill. And
that leaves us with a potential partial
government shutdown this weekend.
>> The President Trump news cycle can move
really, really fast and quickly. I'd
never underestimate that. But on this
particular topic, the imagery of the
last few weeks regarding this story and
this effort is going to scar a lot of
people going into the midterms at year
end. And you just wonder how recoverable
it is for the administration and the
White House to try and turn this issue
around.
>> It's horrific. And Nate Silver wrote
about this over the weekend. Quote,
"Trump is looming losing normies on
immigration. Americans might want strong
border enforcement. They do want that.
They voted for that, but they don't want
ICE agents killing civilians." That's
what he wrote. And then he showed this
chart where you have Trump's overall
approval rating. Now immigration is more
tethered to that overall approval rating
and it's going down. And this is the
argument he won. He dominated in the
election of November 2024. Want to turn
to this story on the labor market.
Amazon cutting about 16,000 roles across
the company as part of ongoing
restructuring efforts. Yesterday, the
tech giant mistakenly send some workers
an email and Canada invite prematurely
announcing the new round of layoffs.
That is just not on. It's not only
embarrassing, but it's absolutely
terrible. Whoever received that email.
>> Yeah. Amateur hour. Really, really
nasty. If you're one of those
individuals, one of those 16,000
employees that now is losing their jobs
and you get this mistakenly sent to you,
but you actually are losing your job,
um, is incredibly challenging right now.
The company will offer US-based
employees 90 days to search for new role
internally. So potentially some off-ramp
there, but this isn't great news. And
the way it was rolled out, really
terrible look for Amazon.
>> Amazon this morning positive by about
0.4%. want to stick with tech.
Microsoft, Meta, Tesla, IBM all set to
report earnings after the closing bell
with investors looking for progress in
artificial intelligence. Mandep Singh of
Bloomberg Intelligence joins us now for
more. Mandep, good morning. Good to see
you. Who stands out for you? Feels like
to me the main event is actually going
to be Meta because Meta has traded so
much softer relative to say an alphabet.
How much pressure is on Zuckerberg right
now? There is a ton of pressure because
if you are talking about hundred billion
dollars plus in capex this year and your
pitch is we are developing an AI
assistant that will be rolled out across
their family of apps. I mean look they
have to do something because there is a
risk that AI generated content could
take some time away from their family of
apps. So they're right in uh investing
in that part of the business. It's just
they h don't have the results to show
like a claude or you know what Google
has done with AI overviews. I mean I
find myself going to AI overviews a lot
more than asking chat GPT what I was
doing 6 months back.
>> Interesting. What is it about the
content that it's replying with that
makes you do that?
>> So just I'm finding all the answers and
it's so seamless. I mean I have my habit
of going to google.com and I'm finding
stuff in AI overviews where in the past
I would have gone to a chatbot to do
that. So look, there is the virality of
the coding agents. So that's the one
market that has taken off in the last 6
months. Claude and cursor and all these
companies have done really well. But we
are talking about $600 billion in
aggregate capex from hyperscalers for
2026. How do you justify that if you
don't have 10 such use cases like coding
agent? And that for me will be the
focus.
>> This is the issue and you and I caught
up about it earlier this week. how the
stock responds to that capex story
because a dollar a capex from Meta is
not the same from say a Microsoft.
>> Yeah,
>> there was some push back at the end of
last year. Do you think that investor
nervousness around that stock and that
level of cafeex is still there coming
into this print?
>> I mean look, Meta has already started
preparing for that by pulling back on
their metaverse reality lab spend. So
they already had a round of layoffs and
uh they are losing $5 billion a quarter
on that reality lab segment. So they
have these offsets. I mean for Meta the
key is the core business keeps growing
at 20% plus the ads. That's surprising
to everyone and that's a you know a 70%
incremental margin business. So their
core business is still 40 to 50% IBITA
margins and that's the luxury they have
in terms of spending on metavverse and
now in AI without having to show
something tangible for it.
>> Well has AI investment helped that core
business of advertisement
>> it has and look when you compare Meta to
Pinterest or Snapchat Meta is growing
two uh 20% at a $200 billion run rate
that's huge and all these small
companies are not even growing high
teens. So from that perspective there is
some tailwind from you know uh the AI
chip investments that they have made
that's helped their recommendations and
feed but still you you're not talking
about uh you know what they're doing
relative to Microsoft or Google
>> what you're basically saying is the
return on the investment if you're an
investor is not there yet even when you
look at how AI is helping some of this
advertisements. Yeah. And and look, the
vision is with the AI assistant, they
can make the app more sticky. People
will spend more time, but I'm already
finding, you know, a lot of the native
Gen AI companies do that outside of
Meta's ecosystem. So, if Apple is
partnering with Google, that's a huge
deal because now we are talking about a
default AI assistant on Apple devices,
that's not Meta. And so from that
perspective, I don't see a lot of
surface area for Meta to deploy their AI
assistant.
>> Is there space to be late for Apple
space to be late but do it better?
That's usually the playbook for Apple.
Is there space in this trend to do that?
>> I mean, Apple's installed base is so
sticky that for me, as long as they have
a hold on hardware and there's no new
form factor, which OpenAI, by the way,
is developing a new form factor, the pin
or whatever it takes where you can talk
to that device, that could be huge. But
until then, we're talking about like Mac
minis have taken off because everyone
wants to deploy large language models on
device right now. So, uh, Mac Mini is a
category that has really done very well
in the last three months. So, from that
perspective, Apple to me still has that
hold on hardware that no one else has.
>> Can we finish on Open AI? You mentioned
it. The funding needs this year. Can
they be met?
>> Well, Sam Alultman has said their
revenue growth is proportional to the AI
infrastructure capacity they have. So
last year they grew 3x because they grew
their gigawatt capacity three times. So
that's the pitch he's making to the
investors that as long as you keep
funding I'm going to show you that
revenue growth and investors are buying
into it. I do think this space is more
challenging because Google AI overviews
has done well and Google has caught up.
So it's a lot more competitive now than
it was probably 6 months back. If open
AI went away, not saying it will, if if
OpenAI went away, would these
hyperscalers be spending as much money
as they are?
>> They would. I mean, look, there is a
real transition in terms of traditional
uh infrastructure to AI infrastructure.
This is more compute inensive, but the
margins for these companies are terrible
right now. When you look at OpenAI's
margins, I mean, I I'm sure they have
negative gross margins and it's not
improving incrementally. So they are
really subsidizing this and uh look even
if you rationalize the training spend uh
you're nowhere getting close to software
like margins. So from that perspective
hyperscalers have that right balance.
>> Mandy it's good to see you as always.
Thank you sir. Mandep Singh there of
Bloomberg Intelligence. After the
balance we've said a few times already
you'll hear from Meta and Microsoft.
Tomorrow you'll hear from Apple. Want to
draw your attention to this note. It
comes from Neil Data of Renmack on the
Fed race. Take a listen to this. I've
said it before, I'll say it again. There
is only one person that has the
confidence of financial markets and the
president and the Republican base. Let
the man who broke the Bank of England
fix the Federal Reserve. Without naming
him, we know who we're talking about
here. The Treasury Secretary, Scott
Besson.
>> The problem is the Treasury Secretary
doesn't want the job. And I've been in
the room with the president asking about
the Fed chair and he looks at the
Treasury Secretary and says, "Well, I
want him to do it." And you know, Scott
Besson quickly is like, "Oh, no, no. I'm
very happy where I am, sir." But it
might become a Dick Cheney scenario. Am
I set out to go find the individual,
find the VP, do the search, but then the
search leads you back to where you
started and that's with him.
>> I think it's fair to say that Cheney may
have wanted the job already to begin
with Bess and Bess. Actually, Bessant
when you look at the polyarket odds is
doing better than others that
potentially should actually be higher
than him given what the president has
said. I mean, he has a 5% chance on
polymarket right now. Kevin Hasset is at
six and Governor Waller who's on the Fed
right now has eight. So that's just
showing that this idea that Neil's
talking about that is out there in the
ether.
>> Yeah, that's the latest on the Fed race.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Back with us, here's
Yhira. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. President Donald Trump with a
new warning for the Iran regime. The
president posting on Truth Social
moments ago, [music] quote, "A massive
armada is heading toward the country."
Trump saying it's time for Iran to make
a deal and get rid of its nuclear
[music] weapons. The president's warning
an attack would be far worse than last
year's bombings of the country's nuclear
sites. Meanwhile, Deutsche Bank shares
are falling in German trading nearly 3%
[music]
following reports its Frankfurt offices
are being inspected by law enforcement.
German news outlet Dary Spiegel
reporting the public prosecutor's office
is probing suspected money laundering
against unknown employees of [music] the
bank.
and Secretary of State Marco Rubio
warning the [music] US is prepared to
use force against Venezuela to ensure
cooperation with the country's acting
president Deli Rodriguez. [music] This
after Rodriguez said that Venezuela has
quote had enough of US interference as
the government faces [music] growing
discontent over its planned oil industry
overhaul. Dr. Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhira, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Yhira in about 30 minutes in the
next hour. Up next on a program
anticipating a pause.
>> I think it makes sense in the face of
elevated inflation to pause.
>> I don't think they want to move.
>> Pressure will be on them to cut, but I
think it would be an inflationary
mistake. [music]
>> That's up next. We'll catch up with
Jonathan Pingle of UBS from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
>> [music]
>> It's my job to be honest with you.
[music] Yes, we've got a special program
on the Federal Reserve a little bit
later on this afternoon, but this
Federal Reserve meeting is not expected
to be that interesting. The only thing
that's going to be interesting for a lot
of people is the news conference and the
political questions that might be
directed at the chairman of the Fed.
>> I'll be very interesting also in the pre
[music] and post commentary from you and
Tom Keane. I'll be tuning in for the
plug. But yes, everyone's going to want
to watch. They don't care about the
decision. We know what the [music]
decision is. They're going to want to
watch how Chairman Powell deals with the
very overt political questions he's
going to get. And rightfully so. He
should get these questions because we
have seen as you've been pointing out a
much more assertive chairman over the
past of the course four weeks or [music]
so.
>> Let's see what we get this afternoon.
That's a reason to tune in. Thanks for
that and this morning anticipating a
pause.
>> I don't think they want to move until
they see demonstrable evidence that
inflation is improving. I think it makes
sense in the face of elevated inflation
to pause and really take stock of how
they assess the economy on both sides of
their mandate.
>> Pressure will be on them to cut, but I
think it would be an inflationary
[music] mistake.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
Federal Reserve's first rate decision of
the year due at 2 p.m. Eastern time.
Jonathan Pingle of UBS writing, "We
expect two 25 basis point rate cuts this
year, one in July, one in October under
a new Fed chair." Jonathan joins us now
for more. Jonathan, good morning. Thanks
for having me.
>> Is that call about the man or is it
about the economic backdrop?
>> Well, it's a little both actually. Um,
you know, we are expecting that uh we
get some strong inflation readings for
the next few months u which we think
will make it difficult for them to cut.
Um we're also sort of waiting a little
bit to see which way the labor market
breaks. I mean we do think the labor
market is still pretty soggy. I think
we've heard some of the recent layoff
announcements after we had sort of the
wave last year. Um now I think that is a
sort of key variable for what might
drive sooner. We think the risks
probably tilt toward a potential sooner.
I mean we wrote last week also we think
March and April are probably a little
underpriced in market expectations but
second half of the year we are expecting
that we will get cooler inflation data
and under a new Fed share um you know
potentially one that could make a
compelling case for its time to move. Um
you know it's a little bit of both. You
know we will get uh we will get the new
Fed share who I think will be under some
pressure to lower rates. Uh but we do
think the inflation data will give them
a little more room to do so.
>> If we based interest rate decisions on
how to consumer fat they'd be cutting
interest rates by 100 basis points
today. the conference board consumer
confidence number was absolutely
dreadful. How disconnected is that from
the other economic data?
>> Um I don't think it's totally
disconnected from the other economic
data but I mean you know historically
like if confidence was this low you
wouldn't expect you know 3% real real
consumption but you know I think this is
a manifestation of sort of the K-shaped
economy that we've been talking about.
Um if you look at the growth in the US
like it's just highly leveraged to the
AI trade both the equity market wealth
that the AI tech stocks have driven
pushing the upper income consumption um
you know those households are still a
wash in cash wealth liquid assets bottom
80% you know struggling um I think you
see that in the polls you see that in
consumer confidence so I think it's you
know this this this incredible
bifurcation that uh that's really
driving that but I think if you ask the
average person on the street they are
worried about affordability
Um I think they're getting more worried
about their jobs. Um so I do think that
you know that is reflecting sort of real
sentiment out there. I don't think it's
fake news. But you know if you are you
know connected to equity markets which
just keep running up and up and up and
up you're feeling a lot better.
>> Well the conference board tariffs trade
politics and the labor market all rose
for January. People are concerned about
this morning you have Amazon cutting
workers. You have UPS cutting 30,000
workers. Do you think this is the start
of potentially corporate America
shedding more in the labor force?
>> Well, I think this is this sounds like a
continuation. We had we had a pretty big
wave of layoff announcements um last
year. Like you you know you know
followed the challenger series for quite
a long time. They do a pretty good job
of of doing these tabulations and
they've you know we certainly were
really surprised at how elevated layoff
announcements were in 2025. You know, I
think with, you know, some expectations
that the labor market was stabilizing,
we thought that those announcements
would sort of wayne or cool, but I think
this most recent um sort of wave of
announcements shows that this is still
in play. Corporate America is still
downsizing. They're still trying to
figure out how to rationalize their cost
basis. Um you know, looking at sort of
uh particularly in segments where, you
know, you might be a little more exposed
to um the K-shaped economy or outside.
>> You think the market is absorbing these
layoffs,
>> the labor market?
>> Yeah. Yeah, I mean I think the labor
market is absorbing the layoffs to the
extent that they were last year. I mean
it's a weak labor market. I mean if we
think about what happened last year,
unemployment rate ground higher if you
just you know take any sort of you know
integral um you know if you think about
part-time for economic reasons rising
work weeks look low. You know I think
this is a signal that the unemployment
rate is probably likely to trend higher
over the next few months rather than
lower.
>> It's quite a story isn't it Jonathan? We
got GDP at what where are we tracking
now? Four something like that. Well, it
depends, right? The Atlanta Fed's
probably close to six, right? Let's run
with that. Have you ever seen a number
that looks like that with a consumer
confidence number that looks like that
and attitudes to the labor market that
sound like this?
>> When did that last happen? This is so
unusual.
>> It is pretty unusual. I mean, I I think
back to sort of I mean, the last time I
really think of about this happening was
sort of in late 2003, which I think
predates probably most of the watchers
of this, but that was a different uh
structure of sort of what was unfolding.
Um, I mean, now I think we're getting a
lot of noise from net exports, the
swings in um shipments of non-monetary
gold. Um, but I do think that what we're
really seeing is just I mean the growth
in the US economy right now is so
concentrated that normally I would say
it's very fragile in fact but you know
we're ahead of getting some more fiscal
stimulus from the one big beautiful bill
act. You know we all expect the AI
related tech capex to continue. So, it's
hard to get too bearish when you know
that, you know, sort of a bumper tax
refund season's coming and and and we
are going to start to enjoy some lower
tax rates.
>> Lots of reasons not to cut interest
rates, which is why so many
>> Well, that's exactly right.
>> won't vote to cut interest rates later
on. Can we finish on the politics?
>> Sure.
>> Is the news conference just going to be
full of questions about whether he stays
beyond May and and why he was so
assertive a few weekends back.
>> Well, I started my career as a
journalist. It's going to be hard for
them to avoid trying to get This is why
I've always liked you, John. try to get
a sound bite out of Cher Pal. I mean, my
guess is Cher Pal is going to try to
deflect those questions as more
appropriate for another time, but um but
we'll see. You know, he he might want to
make a statement. I somehow doubt it,
but I don't think the press corp is
going to be able to resist what's
happening.
>> Toothpaste is out the tube. He squeezed
it.
>> Exactly.
>> You know, it's hard to put it back in.
>> This is the problem. Also, if he wanted
to, he decided to make that video. He
also released that video at an opportune
time when the market was opening up in
Asia. He was given the subpoena on
Friday. He released it Sunday. He went
to Lisa Cook's hearing, which the
administration felt like that was very
political. So, he's moving in that
direction. This is why I think he might
flirt a little bit with some of those
questions.
>> Jonathan, it's good to see you.
>> Great being here. Thank you.
>> Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Jonathan
Pingle, there of UBS. What a strange
moment to see GDP at the levels it's at
with attitudes to the labor market and
feelings about the general economy so
depressed. I mean that conference board,
those comments and coming from Dana
Peter Peterson, tariffs, trade,
politics, labor market, all on the rise
of huge concern for the everyday
consumer references to health insurance
and also this one struck me warged
higher. People are actually concerned in
their everyday psyche or thinking about
the geopolitical tensions that we are
seeing. And that's probably why we're
seeing things like gold absolutely rip
this year. Meta building a data center
the size of Manhattan is not going to
make people feel better about their
prospects to get a job if they're out of
the workforce.
>> No. And they're and then you have to
think, well, even if the Fed were to cut
interest rates, how does this solve AI
replacing our jobs?
>> Let's hope they don't. Up next, Pisra of
JP Morgan, Brent Phil of Jeffre, Adich
of Bank of America, David Rubenstein of
the Carile Group. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance is coming up with
equities at all-time highs at a close in
yesterday's session. And this morning,
we add some weight to the rally. The S&P
500 up by a quarter of 1%. [music] The
Nasdaq up by 0.9. The dollar close to
multi-year lows. And gold [music] at
alltime highs. What a fascinating market
we have worldwide. From New York City,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> tech is going to continue to be the main
earnings growth driver.
>> Investors are focused on who is at the
center of the AI workload.
>> The problem is the valuation is already
very high.
>> There is a high bar for earnings to jump
over it. Earnings are going to be great,
but [music] you're going to see
significant multiple compression. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance with [music]
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
Your scores look like this. Equities
adding some weight to the recent rally.
Alltime high to the close yesterday.
More records in store in the opening
bound 90 minutes away. The NASDAQ up by
0.8%.
Big afternoon coming up for big tech.
Microsoft and Meta reporting after the
closing bow. Before we get there, at
[music] 2 p.m. Eastern time, an FOMC
rate decision followed by 30 minutes
later, a news conference with Chairman
Jay Pal.
>> And that's going to be where the
fireworks are. [music] The news
conference, does he engage with
reporters when they obviously ask about
what is going on in terms of the
political realm of the Federal Reserve.
He decides to release this video after
he was subpoenaed by the DOJ. Why did he
do that? He decided to show up to Lisa
Cook's hearing. Why did he do that? He
might say, "It's a free country. I'm
allowed to also voice my opinion which
the president normally says when he
talks about uh rate cuts and how he
views monetary policy [music]
but there has been a different Jay
Powell you've been talking about this he
has been more assertive in the prior
month and will he engage with reporters
on why he has [music] been more
assertive and also is he sticking around
>> assertive is one word another one is
confrontational it was surprising to see
him engage the way he did a few weekends
ago and I I would say you know look base
cases he won't engage because in [music]
news conference he hasn't but based on
on the performance of the past few
weeks. Maybe there is some space for him
to say something a little bit later on
this afternoon. I hope also we have some
space to talk about the actual [music]
substance, the backdrop for this economy
right now, the recent decline in
unemployment, how much weight he wants
to put on that, whether they have put
[music] to bed their concerns about the
labor market and the adjustment recently
is truly over for the committee. And
I'll also say about this about the
future. I'm getting pretty bored of
hearing the same thing. Tax refunds are
going to be better. Tech companies are
going to keep spending and GDP growth is
going to be fantastic when the [music]
consumer is feeling so bad about the
situation at the moment for the economy
and for the outlook [music] for the
labor market.
>> Depending if you read Dana Peterson or
you listen to David Solomon over at
Goldman Sachs, you get a very [music]
different view of the American economy.
The everyday consumer is talking about
even [music] the concern about war,
geopolitics, not just what's going on
with trade tariffs, [music] US domestic
politics as well as the labor market.
While Wall Street, we heard it last week
on repeat [music] at Davos, Ted Pick
amped up. They are excited for the US
economy. And it is that tension that
JPEL might have to grapple with this
afternoon in the news conference.
>> If you're just tuning in, welcome to the
program. Stocks doing okay. up by about
a quarter of 1% on the S&P. The NASDAQ
doing better thanks to fantastic numbers
from [music] ASML in Amsterdam. In the
Netherlands for the fourth quarter,
bookings just absolutely obliterated
estimates. [music] Coming up on the
program, we'll catch up with Priz of JP
Morgan with the dollar at multi-year
lows. Brent Phil of Jeffre with earnings
from Meta and Microsoft on deck after
the closing bell and Adich of Bank of
America previewing today's Fed rate
decision. We begin this out with stocks
at record highs and the dollar at
multi-year lows heading into the Fed's
meeting. Priz of JP Morgan writing,
"Expect PAL to focus on the Fed's
mandate rather than the politics despite
all the Fed chair drama. We have a
divided Fed with different views on risk
to the mandate and the chair has only
one vote." Pria joins us now for more.
Pria, good morning.
>> Morning.
>> Is this a different Fed? Because that
one vote used to count for quite a lot.
>> I think you know the Fed chair's job is
to sort of build consensus. But look at
I mean what you've been talking about
there are so many crosscurrens here you
know with with this highly concentrated
GDP the K-shaped recovery the low uh
higher low fire economy the risk to the
mandate are sort of two-sided and that's
why we have a divided committee so can
any fed chair sort of build consensus I
think chow did a lot but they've already
reached the sort of realm of neutral so
I think any fed chair coming in is going
to have to contend with the fact that
you're close to neutral it's between
three and four
they're right there. Um, so they're
going to have to wait for the data. So,
you know, I think the, you know, the the
push back around from the Fed, the push
back from the market around Fed
independence, I actually think the fact
that everybody wants an independent Fed,
the bond market, the president, I think
that's actually the the Fed is pushing
back. I think this is all good news. The
Fed chair is extremely important. We'll
have to listen to you know uh we'll have
to sort of listen to the entire
committee but it is just one vote and
we'll have to listen to everybody at the
fed all 12 voting members and and the
non- voting members.
>> Was chair pan last right cut at the last
meeting?
>> Uh given the data right now yes I mean
he's around till May. There's a lot of
data between now and May. So can he cut
you know in March? So we're going to be
watching both inflation and the labor
market. The labor market does seem to
have stabilized. we were getting those
really high layoff announcements and
then you know initial claims is not
showing a pickup. So I would say base
case this you know we might have seen
the last rate cut but I don't think
you're going to get any confirmation of
that. The inflation data has been weak
but it's so shutdown impacted. So we're
going to have to see between the tax
refunds on one side and do we get the
shutdown impacted data showing inflation
some heat in inflation. I think for now
they might not do anything. the market's
not pricing in any rate cuts in the
first half of the year. I think
rightfully so, but we're going to watch
all all of the data. I hope there's no
shutdown because that's going to, you
know, we're just getting somewhat clean
data. I would really hope that we
continue to get that clean data. The Fed
is otherwise likely to stay on hold. But
I think rate cuts second half of the
year is our base case. I think, you
know, if inflation continues in its
current downward trajectory, I think
there's a few more rate cuts this year.
Well, isn't there a chance that Jay
Powell might be there for those rate
cuts given the fact that Senator Tillis
is basically saying, "I'm not moving
ahead with the pick until the DOJ
investigation is wrapped up." How are
you thinking about the politics? Do you
think it will seep into the monetary
policy decisions?
>> No, I don't think politics will drive
in. I think the Fed does what they've
always done. They look at the data, they
assess risk to the outlook, and then
they take an action. I think it's
actually excellent that Chair Powell
pushed back as strongly as he did and
that I think provided cover to Senator
Tillis and others to push back as well.
Where the politics can come in is the
DOJ will need to wrap up pretty quickly
otherwise we're not getting another Fed
chair. I think the likelihood to your
point maybe Chair Powell is more likely
to stay on as a governor. So you know it
remains just one additional vote that or
or you know one person that potentially
could be political. So I think that's
where it can come in the makeup of the
Fed. But I I think the Fed is still
going to say let's look at the data.
There are very vocal hawks out there who
are concerned about the inflation risks.
>> When it comes to the body what you're
talking about if he stays on as a
governorhip, it's a deliberative body.
So isn't this working against what the
president wants? If Fed chair J Pal is
only going to stay on now because he
feels like the institution's under
threat.
>> But you know, but I would say Chal is
extremely credible. I think the
administration wants rate cuts but in a
credible fashion because we've seen if
the market gets nervous that the Fed is
losing its grip on inflation uh you know
longerterm inflation expectations the
long end is going to get unanchored the
president's focus on the the 10ear the
bond every time the bond market speaks
becomes yippy we see some reaction from
the administration so I don't think the
president or the administration would
want to put somebody who's not credible
chair Powell is extremely credible and
he's gone out on a limb, I think very
deliberately to say that he cares about
Fed independence. I think that's
actually good for the institution. It's
good for the bond market. And I think
that's why the bond market, I mean, is
doesn't this feel like the longest month
of the year? It's just begun. But we've
had so much, right? We've had so much
thrown at the market. The 10 years at
four and a quarter. I think that tells
you the market is saying, let's put
everything together. We have a credible
Fed. We have a lot of crossurrens, but
we're in still in a soft landing and
inflation's heading lower. So those rate
cuts can happen just maybe a little bit.
>> I think I saw a headline yesterday or
rather a picture out on social media
that said something like it's January
2772nd.
>> Yeah, I saw that.
>> Which is which is what it feels like,
right? I think there's a disconnected
divide between the way the financial
media is talking about what's happening
in markets and what's actually happening
in markets. There's a headline that I
keep seeing every time we have a down
day for the US dollar, which is sell
America. And then I look at the bond
market and it's at 424, 423, 420
something. And then I hear headlines and
people talking about stories that
consider a debasement trade and this is
why everyone's piling into gold and then
market-based expectations for inflation
are still really really subdued. I was
looking at the data for foreign holdings
of treasuries at the back end of last
year record highs never been higher. Is
there a divide between the stories
you're seeing the headlines you read and
what's actually happening in markets at
the moment?
>> So you know that famous um saying never
let the facts get in the way of a good
story. Yeah, I think there's a little
bit of that. There is a good story. Sell
America. You know, there's so much
chaos, political chaos. You should sell
America. Let's look at the facts. You
know, we have auctions every other week.
Auctions have been going fine. Foreign
demand is strong. And I would look at,
you know, not just holdings of
treasuries. Look at holdings of
corporate bonds. We've had a record
corporate issuance month this year, uh,
you know, or, um, you know, this month.
We've had significant inflows from
foreigners. So, why are credit spreads
where they are? We're seeing the demand.
So the technicals for fixed income,
technicals for equities remain strong.
So it's hard for me to say sell America
when they are still when the rest of the
world is still buying American assets.
The US is still growing significantly
outperforming the rest of the world. We
still have the most diversified liquid
deep markets. So I think the dollar is a
separate issue. Maybe it's a little
overvalued. Our model still suggests the
dollar is a little overvalued. You have
this whole yen intervention. I don't
know if they intervened or was verbal
intervention. the president saying he's
okay with a lower dollar. I think
there's a little bit of a valuation with
maybe you know the the dollar can
weaken. I think it might be a hedge
dollar risk rather than sell America.
We're not seeing any evidence of a sell
America across asset classes. So I would
say it's not really sell America going.
>> It was interesting last week just
listening and reading the way that
people were talking or writing about
what was developing in financial markets
last week. The bigger move was in Japan.
Yet we woke up to stories about sell
America. And I was actually so impressed
by how well this Treasury market
actually stood up to the convulsion in
the JGB market. The fact that we saw
moves of 20 to 30 basis points at the
long end of the Japanese curve. And we
were up by what mid- single digits here
in the Treasury market. I'll take that
any day of the week, wouldn't you? Given
the move we saw in Japan.
>> And which is why most of us are not
sleeping a whole lot because we're
watching, you know, the 4-year auction
last night in Japan was actually okay.
Um, you know, I think the Japanese uh
and and we're we're watching the
election uh next week or or the week
after. So, I think yes, the Japanese
long end is what I'm watching cuz you
know that global term premiums are
highly correlated. So, you can have no
sell America, but you can have a global
term premiums have to be higher and
therefore all long ends sell off. So,
let's watch what do the Japanese do
around their fiscal side. Their fiscal
situation is not that bad actually. So,
but do they cut some of that long-end
supply? What do we do in the US? You
know, Secretary Besson can cut some long
supply. I would say as a market
participant, there isn't that much
demand for the very long end. So, maybe
cut the 20 year, cut the 30 year. We
have the Treasury refunding next week,
which we'll be watching for any hints of
that. So, is there a supply demand
mismatch globally in the long end
perhaps? And that's where I think, you
know, there could be some issuance
shifts. But you're right, this was a
Japan, so it was a sell JGBs rather than
a sell America.
>> You know, I should clarify. I I don't
think you should be ignorant of the
risk. I'm just sort of highlighting it's
an observation, not a judgment about
where we go. Just an observation of last
week, just how well the Treasury market
withstood some of this. I do think
there's a warning coming out of Japan
that ultimately at some point,
regardless of how big your central bank,
how big that role is in your market, at
some point the market will push back
against the government going too far.
And I think that's something you've got
to keep on your radar for this year at a
time when we go into the midterms and
we've heard all kind of suggestions
about how we boost this economy in the
US. My question Pri would be in fact my
number one question would be why is the
Treasury market so resilient in the face
of all these risks? Why is it standing
up so well? Why did it perform so well
relative to Japan last week?
>> I think it's the inflation story. I mean
I maybe I look at fundamentals and the
inflation trends broadly speaking are
all heading lower and that's going to
allow the Fed to cut. It's going to
allow the market to price in these rate
cuts. And then we look at further out
the curve, you look at term premium,
it's actually risen significantly. We're
getting paid up, you know, much more
today than over the last 15 years to
extend out in duration. So investors
like us will say, okay, we've broken out
of the range. Maybe duration risk is
attractive and maybe we should be buying
some longer end treasuries, you know, a
apart from uh, you know, just buying
credit. So it's been a credit story. at
some point it's going to be a duration
story. So we saw it as an opportunity to
extend out the curve. I think that's why
that long end has been contained. That's
one. The other one I would say that the
president cares about the long end. I
mean if housing affordability is all
about the tenure. We've heard him last
year talk about the yippy bond market.
Secretary Besson was out there you know
talking to the Japanese officials. The
yen intervention you know I think that
tells you that there is focus from the
administration. When the bond market
speaks, every other market as and the
administration listens.
>> This is why I think so many people are
so much more comfortable with the dollar
trade and pushing it to be weaker
because if you had total control of the
Federal Reserve, there's one thing you
can control and that's yields. You can
just buy it. You can anchor yields.
Japan did that. They've shown us the
playbook. And if you're really worried
about mortgage rates, you could pin the
long end of the curve down. What you
can't control is how the FX market would
respond to that. And we know how it
would. You'd be pushing a much, much
weaker dollar, and that would be the
release valve. And I wonder if that's
when the market's coming around things.
Just thinking about the range of risk
and the balance of risk over the next 12
months that that's the easier trade to
make here just push through foreign
exchange compared to other asset
classes.
>> I think relative to what the
administration wants, I will push back
that the Fed is not going to buy the
long end just selling off. But maybe
there's a supply issue. Maybe the
Treasury can issue less or people like
us would say at some point I'm getting
paid up. The curve is steep enough that
I'm going to move out the curve. It's a
positive carry trade now to be long
duration as a hedge. And that's the
other thing, right? With valuations
where they are, I might want a hedge
here. And the front end was extremely
attractive and you were getting five 5
1/2%. Now, while that front end is much
lower, the Fed's cut rates, the 10ear is
a much better hedge to risk assets. And
I think that's why investors like us who
are buying credit, who think we're in a
soft landing, will say, let's just hedge
and buy a little bit further out the
curve. And even though it's not the Fed
that's pinning, I think that demand
starts to pin that long.
>> Yeah. Not my base case. We'll get yield
curve control. I'll throw that out
there. I'm just saying from a market
participants perspective, I think right
now they feel like there's less
resistance in foreign exchange than
there is in say the bond market trying
to push yields higher. Just one way of
thinking about things. Pria, good to see
you as always. Thank you. Pri Misra
there of JP Morgan Asset Management.
Should we get you an update on news
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief?
Here's Yahara Arnard. Hey Yhierra.
>> Hi John. Fed chair finalist Rick Reer's
past political donations could
complicate his candidacy for the job.
Records show the Black Rockck executive
has donated to some of President Trump's
biggest political rival rivals. [music]
Reader gave to Nikki Haley's 2024
presidential campaign and Democrats
[music] Pete Buddhaj and Cy Booker's
2020 runs among others. Meanwhile,
shares of Starbucks are rising 7 and a
half% in the pre-market after the coffee
giant posted strong earnings. Global
sales at established locations jumped
4%, rising for the second straight
quarter and easily topping expectations.
The [music] results mark a continued
move in the right direction under CEO
Brian Nickel, who has prioritized
improving service and speed while
reducing menu complexity.
And two Senate Republicans are calling
for Homeland Security Secretary Christy
Gnome to lose her job following the
deadly shootings by immigration officers
in Minnesota. Lisa Marowski [music]
saying it's time for Gnome to step down
and Tom Tillis saying he has no
confidence in her at all. President
Donald Trump saying he's not planning to
remove Gnome. [music] That's your rumor
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
Up next on the program, the Morning
Horse. Plus, we'll catch up with Brent
Philip Jeffre with key earnings from
Meta and Microsoft after the closing
bell. Live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
I'd be a little bit more worried about
the long end bond yields. Um, you know,
the short end leverage stuff can be
painful. If we really get that sort of
long end bond yield moving and we've
already seen it happen in bones and in
guilts and and now in JGBs, if that
spreads over to the US, that's a bigger
issue to me. You don't know when it's
going to happen, but there is exposure
to these fiscal headlines and you know,
hopefully in the US we don't experience
it, but I just wouldn't write that one
off as a risk solved.
>> I think we all hope Stuart's right.
Stuart Kaiser of City. Remarkable how
resilient this Treasury market has been
in the face of all of these risks we've
been discussing every single day on this
[music] program. Check out the equity
market this morning. Stocks doing
better, up by a few ten of 1% on the
S&P, up by 0.8 on the NASDAQ. Big tech
very much in focus. We'll [music] get to
that in just a moment. Let's get some
morning calls. First up, BFA lowering
its price target on United Health to 314
after the company reported earnings,
seeing risk of more rate pressure in
future [music] years. Elsewhere, our
second call from Bed raising its price
target on Texas Instruments to 225,
believing the company is well entrenched
into a cycle recovery. The stock is
higher this morning by more than [music]
7%. And finally, keep raising its price
target on Amazon to 308, saying the tech
giant remains its key idea in large cap
internet and retail. The stock is
marginally high this morning by half of
1%. Let's stick with tech. Meta and
Microsoft among the companies reporting
earnings today. Brent Thov Jeff saying
the tech giants are two of [music] his
top picks. And Brent joins us now for
more. Brent, welcome to the program,
sir. I want to start with Meta and your
more constructive view relative to
what's been developing say over at
Alphabet and the valuation discount that
so many people are focused on. Brent,
why are you more constructive on that
name?
I think uh we're more constructive based
on the multiple dis dislocation uh
number one to the over uh spending
expectations that we think AI won't
produce a return and we've we've already
demonstrated that Mark Zuckerberg can
invest in AI and has produced that
return and produce returns to
shareholders. I I think third um the the
fear that he's just going to waste the
money on some new initiative like
glasses that this won't be poured back
into the core. I think there's another
uh lingering concern there and I I think
there's just a bigger concern away from
Meta which is Google's doing
phenomenally well. So why not just stay
along Google which we have a buy on and
uh you know why why chase this? Google's
doing so much better with Gemini. Both
uh consumers and enterprises are are
adopting the technology. Um so I think
you know there's kind of multiple things
moving against the the reason why to own
it is the sentiment is so bad. At the
beginning of last year, everyone hated
Google and that was the biggest
outperformer because everyone had AI
wrong at Google. Uh they were a Camry
showing up at a drag race and they had a
Ferrari engine underneath as we say. Um,
so I think there I'm not saying that
there's a Ferrari engine underneath on
AI, uh, the AI story at Meta right now,
but I think it's probably gotten too
negative in terms of the sentiment. And
again, the multiple is just it's an
eight eight multiple term differential
between uh, Google and Microsoft. So
when you get that big a differential, it
um, it becomes more interesting to us.
>> So basically, you're saying the
sentiment is just so bad and they can't
do that bad, so you might as well get
in. But they want to spend $600 billion
on infrastructure projects before the
end of the decade. Does that make you
nervous?
>> Yeah, this MetaMP compute initiative is
um is nerve-wracking. Um Mark Zuckerberg
said he's going to spend tens of
gigawatts by the end of the year. A
gigawatt is about $50 billion investment
per uh the sea of Nvidia. So, you know,
that's that's 500 billion. Uh and then
he's saying hundreds of billions. So
everyone says, "Well, that's trillions."
And so that spending to your point is,
you know, are they going to get a
return? And I think that I think you got
to go back to AI works with companies
that have data users and capital. And
when you think about the dollars that
they're deploying,
uh they've shown the ROI. They've shown
the return. You saw uh what what
Amazon's doing. You see what uh Google's
doing. You see what Microsoft's doing.
It's not like Meta what Meta is doing is
any different. They're all spending. Um,
ASML said that you saw it in in the TSMC
numbers where, you know, they're they're
encouraged by what they're seeing from
the rest of the industry. We're remember
we're at the beginning of the AI
inflection. And so, I think you have to
build and invest to get dollars and we
think we're confident that they can
generate that. And if you look at
Instagram and you go on for five
minutes, we all know what this feels
like. you spend 45, 50 minutes in an
hour. Um, they have one of the best
targeting engines, AIs that work. Um,
there's proof that it does work and
that's why advertisers go to the
platform. That's why users go to the
platform,
>> right? Which is why I actually have one
of those notifications that comes up
that says you spent your 15 minutes you
allotted for Instagram for the day, so
you should get off this app. Just before
you go, what should we be looking out
today when it comes to Microsoft?
>> Azure is their infrastructure business.
high 30% close to 40% growth is the key
there. Um obviously capex is all in
focus here as well and their capex plans
and what they need to do. I I think uh
they've shown margin improvement in the
age of AI. Everyone says well how are
you going to make money in AI? Amy
Hood's the best CFO in software. She has
shown you margin improvement the last
two years. Even in the face of investing
in AI, can they continue the margin
improvement? Again, it's it's about the
AI story here and the adoption across
their stack with office uh with uh
co-pilot with Azure. Uh so I think you
know that there's many pieces of the
story at at at Microsoft. They put up
50% backlog growth last quarter and that
gives you an indication of why couldn't
they do 38 39 40% Azure growth. They
just put up a 50% backlog number.
Backlog is a leading indicator. So they
did that last quarter. So the the
question becomes can that translate to
revenue sign the contract can they take
it to revenue we've had supply
constraints across AI across many of
these hyperscalers are these supply
constraints starting to to ease um so
there's a number of factors we're
looking at uh for Microsoft
>> hey Brent good to see you Brent Phil
there of Jeffre with buys on both
Microsoft and on Meta those two names
reporting [music] after the closing bout
up next we'll catch up with Adv of Bank
of America previewing today's Fed rate
decision and one big mover out in Europe
having to lift sentiment this morning.
We'll take another look at ASML from New
York City. This is Bloomberg TV.
[music]
The oven about 60 minutes away.
Equities, the stock market at record
highs on the S&P 500. Alltime highs at a
close yesterday. some follow through,
some positive follow through, up by 210
of 1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ, some
real out performance, higher by 0.8%.
Sentiment gets a lift and it gets a lift
in Europe. In Amsterdam, check out this
move. ASML is up by close to 5%. The
numbers for the fourth quarter, listen
to this. Bookings, [music] a record 13.2
billion euros. The average analyst
estimate 6.85 [music]
billion euros. That is called absolutely
obliterating estimates.
>> Yeah, it's pretty incredible what ASML
was able to do. And remember, they make
the machines that then TSMC, Intel,
Samsung are able to make the cutting
[music] edge AI chips and then those
customers are the likes of Nvidia. So,
this just bodess entirely well for the
entire AI [music] complex.
>> The AI trade gets a lift ahead of the
earnings from big tech in America after
the closing B Meta and Microsoft just
around the corner. Let's turn to the
bond market. Will it be a snooze later
on this afternoon? 2-year 10-year bond
yields down by not even a basis point.
10's at 424. The focus of Wall Street
right now seems to be much more on the
politics than the policy. We'll get into
that in just a moment. The fireworks,
we've been talking about it, the drama,
the headlines and foreign exchange and
precious metals. The dollar close to
multi-year lows and gold at all-time
highs. It's an 8day record-breaking
[music]
winning streak for gold up another 2% in
today's session. Jim Biano on Twitter
was with a great chart saying this is
[music] the K-shaped trade. Gold
skyrocketing as the dollar took another
leg lower yesterday and of course
another leg lower after the president's
comments basically saying you know he's
okay with a weaker dollar as you said
the door was already there opened he
just pushed it to open a little bit more
>> 8day winning streak for gold the longest
going back to March 2024 as we count you
down to that Fed decision the first one
of the year 2 p.m. Eastern time. Mike
McKe joins us now from Washington
[music]
with a preview. Mike McKe, is this going
to be light on substance and heavy on
politics?
>> Well, I think that's what people are
anticipating. The question is, will J
Pal play along? We are not expecting the
Fed to change anything with its
benchmark rates. The kind of key
question for Wall Street is what do they
say about the future? Do they continue
to include the phrase that in
considering the extent and timing of
additional moves in the Federal Reserve
uh rate? Uh that's going to be the key
thing to look for in the statement
today, additional adjustments. And if
they don't do anything along those
lines, it will be kind of snoozy except
for we'll be watching to see who desents
uh who else desents because we know
Steven Myron will. And then uh the main
question you asked John is will J.
Powell talk about policy only or will he
delve into the politics of his
relationship with the president and the
Fed's relationship with the Trump
administration. Uh what's the Fed's
strategy here? Engage or cool down the
temperature? Uh as far as the disscent
issue, there is one subplot to that. We
know that Steven Meyer will descent, but
what does Chris Waller do? Bloomberg
economics is making a kind of big deal
out of this. They say if he does not
descent, then his chances to become Fed
chair disappear. Uh the I the headline
up there is from be and so we'll be
watching to see whether Waller joins the
descent camp or whether he decides the
economics tell him it's better not to.
Mike, do you think it's unfair to reduce
the votes of Governor Chris Waller to
some kind of pursuit to get the top job
of the Federal Reserve when he's been
such an effective thought leader at that
central bank for the last few years?
Oh, of course, it's not fair to Waller.
It's not fair to the other candidates
the way the whole thing has played out.
And certainly whoever gets the job is
going to get a side eye from Wall Street
because the president says he's not
appointing anybody who isn't committed
to cutting interest rates big time. So,
uh, you have to say that is kind of
unfair, but Waller has a good reputation
for being a very smart economist and
doing what is best for the economy. And
I think that's what we'll see out of him
today.
>> Without a doubt. And I hopefully, Mike,
I know this sounds somewhat boring, but
hopefully we can talk about the economy
and the data we've received so far. The
realized data and the anticipated data.
Mike, the realized data, the labor
market, how much weight we should put on
the bounce back in the labor market and
the anticipated data. Mike, a lot of
people on Wall Street are expecting a
better year of economic growth. And I
want to understand from the Fed's
perspective, how they think that will
translate into a view on say inflation,
how supply constraint we are, if there's
upside risk, the headline inflation, how
they'd respond to that in the face of
better growth. Have you got a good read
on that?
>> We don't have a good read on that, but
I'll tell you it is one of my questions.
The the balance between their two
mandates is an interesting situation
right now. They have been concerned
about the labor market and then the
story was well okay the labor market has
stabilized and then overnight we've
gotten basically tens of thousands of
job cuts announced and at the same time
you have the administration and people
on Wall Street touting the idea that
we're going to get these big tax refunds
and that's going to stimulate the
economy at a time when analysts are
thinking the PCE for December might rise
to 3% or above. So where are they on
that balance between those two things?
That's going to be a key question for J
Pal as well.
>> Mike McKe, thank you sir. You're world
class and we're looking forward to your
performance in the news conference a
little bit later and the questions
you've got to ask Mike McKe there as
someone messaged us just moments ago for
a lot of people if they get those
refunds they're going to the utility
companies.
>> Absolutely. they're paying for heating,
especially if you're along the east
coast. And we have seen electricity
prices have just skyrocketed partially
is it is what is going on with supplies.
Also, the fact that data centers are
using more and more of that supply,
which is why the president is telling
tech companies they need to pay up for
it. So potentially any of that extra
refund income you're going to get, it
might just be going off right to your
utility company.
>> Let's get to the view from Bank of
America. Ad Barb's got this to say. The
Fed is on hold but remains data
dependent. Investors should watch for
Pal's take on the December unemployment
rate decline and the link between robust
economic activity and the neutral rate.
Adicha joins us now for more. Adicha,
perfect. Thank you. Good morning. Good
morning.
>> Talk about substance and not politics
for a moment. Your recent upgrade to the
outlook for GDP in this country. What
was behind that?
>> So, it's a couple things. The first one
is what Mike mentioned, the tax refunds.
We think that amounts to about 135 to
140 billion in fiscal stimulus just
around taxes and most of that will be in
refunds. Some of that will be in smaller
tax liabilities. But however you cut it,
I think what that does is it really
frontloads the consumer stimulus into
the first half of this year. If you
layer that on top of the significant
outperformance of GDP in the second half
of last year, 4.4% 4% third quarter,
fourth quarter tracking almost 3% for
us. For others like the Atlanta Fed is
tracking about 5%. So you put all of
that together and your annual average
growth rate can easily get to around 3%.
>> Does that come with hotter inflation?
>> To a degree, yes. And we have the core
PC getting stuck around 2.8%
by the end of this year, partly because
of the strength in growth. But the other
thing that's probably going on is that
potential growth has moved up because
productivity growth has moved up and
that has important implications for the
neutral rate.
>> Well, when it comes to what is going on
though for the Federal Reserve, maybe
inflation concern if we're going to run
a hot economy. But what did you make of
the conference board yesterday,
especially when it comes portion of
consumers who think jobs are plentiful
and those hard to get that worsened?
They're concerned about labor market.
>> The labor market differential has
deteriorated significantly. It's at a
level that's probably consistent with a
much higher unemployment rate than what
we're seeing right now. And it's kind of
consistent with this broader trend we've
seen in the data where sentiment data
are underperforming the hard data. And
that's been true for for a few years
now.
>> So when the chairman decides to go speak
to the press, besides the politics, do
you think he leans into the concerns of
inflation and running the economy hot or
the concerns that you're seeing in
consumers from the conference board? I
think Powell is going to stick with the
hard data. And it's it's it's it's
interesting because there's still a
question of how he talks about the labor
market. The labor market's definitely
soft. I don't think there's any question
about that. It's not showing any signs
of reaceleration. But what you had is
several months of consistent increases
that were quite concerning and then a
big drop in December. So if you lean
into that and you say, "Okay, well on
net we haven't moved up that much."
That's a more hawkish story. It
validates what markets are pricing right
now. But if you say, "Look, that's one
data point. We need to get confirmation
of that because the prior months were a
little bit concerning. Then I think that
could open us up for a doubbish surprise
given that we've basically priced cuts
out for the rest of Powell storm. Now as
chair,
>> I think it is understandable why
consumers feel the way they do about
this economy for a whole host of
reasons. But let's just take the
character of GDP. When so much growth is
coming from tech capex, you can
understand why the average consumer is
not feeling it. When we talk about
payrolls bouncing back and so much of it
comes from one sector, healthcare, I
think you can sit here and understand
why the average consumer is not feeling
it. The character of growth appears to
have changed to diet and I just wonder
if that's going to be the story going
through the next several years and
something we all have to adapt to.
>> I think that's a very reasonable thing
to think about. There's a lot of case in
the economy. That's that's one way to to
to explain that and I think it extends
to consumer spending as well. So, a lot
of growth from capex, but also a lot of
growth from consistent significant
upsides surprises and consumer spending,
but the thing is it's skewed towards
higher income households.
>> You mentioned the neutral rate. Your
understanding of whether it's moved up
or down. Where are you now?
>> It probably has moved up. I mean, look
what's happened over the last 3 years,
right? We've basically averaged around
3% or almost 3% GDP growth in a world
where the Fed is still saying it's 1.8%.
Seems unlikely. So I would guess neutral
rates probably moved up at least 25 to
50 basis points which means that policy
in real terms could well be in
accommodative territory right now.
>> You're not getting the Fed shed job.
Adich, it's good to see you.
>> No, I'm not.
>> That's disqualifying.
>> Good to keep you at Bank of America.
Adich there of Bank of America
Securities. Thank you, sir. Appreciate
it. Thank you, sir. Let's give you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara
with more. Hey yara.
>> Hi, John. [music]
President Donald Trump saying he's not
worried about the dollar's recent slump.
The president telling reporters he's
comfortable with the green back at
multi-year lows, saying quote, "The
dollar's doing great." His comments
adding to the dollar's decline,
currently trading at its lowest level
[music]
in nearly four years. Meanwhile,
Anthropic is set to raise about $20
billion from venture capitalists and
other investors in a new funding round.
The Fin Financial Times reporting that's
double the amount initially targeted and
would value the AI startup at $350
billion. [music]
The FT saying GIC and KOU are leading
the deal with Sequoia Capital also
investing. [music]
And baby formula manufacturers are
facing a global crisis as [music] new
contamination scares trigger widespread
recalls. Reports indicating infants are
getting sick from formulas designed to
mimic mother's milk. The crisis centers
on a European manufacturer recalling
products with fatty [music] acid
intended to support brain and immune
development. That's Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Thanks
for this morning. Up next, we'll set you
up for the day ahead. Lots of tech
earnings after the close and a Fed
decision later on this afternoon. We'll
catch up with the Carile co-founder
[music] and co-chairman David Rubenstein
in just a moment. From New York City,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
Heat. Heat.
>> [music]
>> For now, they might not do anything. The
market's not pricing in any rate cuts in
the first half of the I think rightfully
so. But we're going to watch all all of
the data. We're just getting somewhat
clean data. I would really hope that we
continue to get that clean data. The Fed
is otherwise likely to stay on hold. But
I [music] think rate cuts second half of
the year is our base case.
>> That was a market participant who does
not want a government shutdown anytime
soon because they want that data. Pri
Misra [music] of JP Morgan Asset
Management from New York City. Welcome
to the program. Your scores look like
this. Alltime highs coming into
Wednesday. We add some weight to the
rally. Up another tenth of 1% on [music]
the S&P on the NASDAQ 100 up by 7/10en
of 1%. All is quiet in the bond market.
Twos 10 and 30s. Not doing much this
morning. Your 10-year around 425. Yields
just about unchanged going into this
afternoon. And an interest rate decision
that most people assume will [music] be
a non-decision. A Federal Reserve that
keeps rates on hold. The big move has
been in the FX market, a dollar that's
weaker, and in the minds [music] of
many, a president that's embracing that
move, and a gold price that's broken out
to another all-time high. Eight
consecutive [music] sessions, gold has
ripped higher. We're up another 1.5% in
today's session.
>> And when you heard here from the likes
of Jim Steel [music] of HSBC, we're
likely going to go much higher when it
comes to gold. But he did say
potentially the geopolitical scenario
right now playing out could mean we
could have pullbacks. It's not just all
about central bank buying, which we
[music] saw really at the start of
Russia's invasion of Ukraine, but really
it's got to be all about the dollar. I
hope the president has asked about it
again today. He said how Japan and China
keep wanting to devalue it and he had
[music] to fight like hell with them.
But then he said he can make it. He said
he alone can make it go up or down like
a yo-yo. And he wasn't concerned. He
thinks it's doing great. Well, guess
what? When he said that, it was doing
great on the way down.
>> It's certainly gone up and down like a
yo-yo in the last 24 hours. As we count
down to the opening bell, some other
things to look out for over the next
week [music] or so. Amry mentioned that
address from the president. That happens
at 11:00 a.m. Eastern time. Later on
this afternoon, that FOMC rate decision
followed by a Fed share JPAL press
conference. Plus, results from
Microsoft, Meta, and Tesla after the
closing bow. [music] Tomorrow, another
round of jobless claims and earnings
from Apple. Friday, a sprinkle of data,
PPI, [music] and the government funding
shutdown deadline. Can we avoid all of
that until the weekend? I don't think
we're going to avoid a shutdown. [music]
There will be a partial government
shutdown. I don't know how long it's
going to last. I don't think it's going
to last 43 days already. We're seeing
individuals [music] say, "No, we need to
make a deal. We cannot go through this
again." But I I mean, I really do think
there's going to be a government
shutdown. You have people saying it was
never going to happen 2 weeks ago that
are now at 75 80% [music] odds.
>> We'll talk more about that going into
the weekend. Coming up tonight,
programming note on Bloomberg TV, 9:00
p.m. Eastern time, the latest episode of
the David Rubenstein Show, peer-to-peer
conversations. David joins us now for
more. Looking forward to this one with
Alish. David, good to see you, sir. The
infamous dinner last week. We bumped
into you at the World Economic Forum in
Davos, Switzerland. You were in the
room, I believe, when commerce secretary
Howard Lutnik delivered that speech. How
controversial was it?
>> Well, it was uh controversial, I
suspect, but he didn't think it was
controversial. It was a dinner. It was
the welcoming dinner from the uh hosts
of the or the chair of the uh world
economic forum which is now uh co-chared
for at least the interim period of time
by two people Larry Frink and Andre
Hoffman from uh Hoffman Lar Ro family
and um they had about five speakers who
spoke and uh Howard Lutnik was the last
speaker who spoke and it it was
something that got people's attention
I'll put it that way.
>> Is that curious that he was the one to
deliver this message? The first time I
ever met Howard Lutnik was at Davos
years ago before he's Treasury
Secretary. He's talking about the global
elite. Well, no offense, Mr. Commerce
Secretary, but isn't he wasn't he part
of one that now he now is saying he just
owns?
>> Um he is um a unique figure and um I
think he's gotten a lot of um leeway by
the president to negotiate a lot of
these deals and I think he's very much
enjoying the job being my impression. Um
I have I co-hosted a lunch with Dina Pal
later uh in the week and he came to that
lunch and spoke as well and um his
message is pretty consistent. So I think
he's not going to change and you know
he's pretty happy in the job and I think
the president seems to be happy with
him. So
>> that is a very diplomatic answer
overall. What did you make of this
year's Davos?
>> Well it was a transition because Klaus
Schwab who built it um more than 50
years ago was no longer the chair. he
wasn't there. And so they had new uh
leadership. I think there were more CEOs
than they've ever had before. They had
more foreign leaders. Virtually every
European leader showed up and clearly
when the president United States shows
up, it tends to dominate the news and
and a lot of people stood just watching
President Trump's speech for an hour or
so and everybody was waiting for the
punchline and the punch line that people
were expecting uh didn't show up which
was that he was going to use military
force. That didn't show up. So that was
the big news and I think people were
relieved about that. Generally
>> I welcomed some of the developments in
the last week. It just felt like
corporate America's shifted away from
virtue signaling and we're just focused
on business now. Is that your sense of a
shift as well? Did you witness that last
week?
>> Well, after the the Greenland thing kind
of went away a bit. U people are focused
on the Fed and though as you pointed out
already the Fed's decisions pretty much
is well known uh for today. And then
people are looking at earnings and
people are wondering where the deficit
is going, the debt the US and and also
whether there's going to be a government
shutdown. And I think I think both
sides, the Republicans and Democrats do
not want a shutdown. They're really
trying hard to avoid a shutdown. Uh I
suspect they will avoid it in some way.
>> We don't want to shut down. We've seen
all the headlines about South America in
financial markets, but then I listen to
the CEOs in America and the global CEOs
as well who are investing in America. Do
you sense a disconnect between the
headlines and and where the money's
going at the moment?
>> Well, there's no doubt that people are a
little more nervous about investing in
America uh than maybe people would like
who are trying to get them to invest in
America because there is some concern
about the dollar going down. Um you
know, if you invest in the United States
and the dollar goes down, the value of
your investment obviously is not as good
as you thought. But it's not been the
major cause of concern for foreign
investors. They're just worried about
where the US government is going. You
know it's it's very hard to predict
where the US government is going for a
lot of foreign investors. People want
business people predictability. Tell me
what the rules are and I will follow the
rules. And sometimes the rules are
unpredictable or they change a lot. So
to the extent that there's consistency,
I think more and more people will invest
in the US. But to the extent that
there's inconsistency, people pull back
a bit. And particularly the dollar is an
issue as well.
>> But that's that's Trump in a nutshell.
Uncertainty is a feature of him. That is
what he does. And now it's an election
year. So what kind of unpredictability
can we see this year alone?
>> Well, I can't predict the
unpredictability of uh of the leadership
of the government, but I would say there
are a lot of issues that people are
worried about. And um right now, I would
say the US economy seems to be doing
pretty well. I think growth is pretty
good. Inflation's pretty much under
control. Relatively speaking, it's not
going to be at 2%. Um and unemployment
is at a tolerable level. It's not as low
as we might want, but really generally
the economy is in pretty good shape. And
whatever people might say about JP pal
and I'm a big supporter of his u we
haven't had a recession under J Pal's
leadership. Normally Fed shares get
often get blamed for recessions other
people get blamed too but he's had to
increase interest rates to deal with
high inflation and he's had to lower
them when when inflation came back and
normally when you increase and you
decrease you get some kind of recession
along the way. We haven't had a
recession. So in my view he's done a
pretty good job. Having known the man,
do you think he's going to entertain any
questions today regarding will he stay
on after his chairmanship or the more
assertive stance he's taken against the
White House?
>> I don't want to pretend to speak for
him, but I would be surprised if he said
anything other than here's what we did
today. [laughter] Um,
>> boring.
>> And and but it's actually interesting
because when you had previous Fed
shares, they didn't tell you what they
were going to do in advance and they
didn't explain it 30 minutes later. He
does it in in English so you can
understand. So, I think to uh to his
credit, he actually explains what he's
doing and people can understand it. Many
times the Fed never actually had press
conferences before. So, I think he's
done a pretty good job and um I I
suspect in the end um he will um
announce at the appropriate time what
he's going to do.
>> He is not Greenspan, that's for sure.
It's a very different communication
style without a doubt.
>> It's different than Allan Greenspan or
Paul Vulker. They they were more um I
would say difficult to understand.
>> David, tons of volatility around this
institution. I've been surprised by how
it hasn't really been consequential at
all in financial markets. It's struggle.
I struggled to find a read through from
the volatility around the institution
and how it's rippling through financial
markets. In fact, the Treasury market
has been very resilient in the face of a
lot of risk. As a market participant
like yourself, what's your conclusion as
you see that play out?
>> Well, I think people are uh unclear
where the government policy is in some
areas and therefore they are hesitant
about making some long-term commitments.
But on the whole, the business community
is more or less supportive of what the
federal government is doing. I mean,
most of the CEOs are more or less in
line. I mean, they they don't agree with
everything the administration's doing,
but they recognize that there's less
regulation than there was before. Um,
it's easier to get a decision about uh
mergers or acquisitions than it might
have been before. So, I think some
business people are pleased with it, but
some business people are basically doing
what they need to do to help their
company, but they may not personally
believe in everything that the president
is doing.
>> David, it's good to see you as always.
Looking forward to the show a little bit
later. Thank you, sir.
>> My pleasure. Thank you. [snorts]
>> Thank you. The Carlo co-founder and
co-chairman, David Rubenstein. Tune in
to Bloomberg TV at 9:00 p.m. Eastern
time for the latest episode of the David
Rubenstein Show, peerto-peer
conversations. Tune in a little bit
later as well at 2 p.m. Eastern time for
our Bloomberg Surveillance Special, The
Fed Decides. We'll be speaking to Torson
Sllock of Apollo, Sebatra Shapper of
Sockgen, Bob Michael of JP Morgan Asset
Management, and Jeff Rosenberg of
BlackRock. A lot of people view this as
a non-decision this afternoon. It's not
about policy. It may well be about
politics.
>> And what does Jay Powell say when he
gets asked those questions about
politics? I thought maybe he would flirt
with the idea of giving a little bit
more than his normal no thank you, I
refer you to this statement or that. And
now hearing from David Rubenstein, I
don't think we're going to get any of
that. It's going to be a pretty boring
Federal Reserve press conference today.
And I was looking for
>> tune in to special program. Can't wait
for that, David. Thank you. Thanks for
the tease.
>> From New York City this morning. Good
morning. Equities at alltime highs on
the S&P 500. The open up and bell about
35 minutes away. From New York City,
this was Bloomberg surveillance.
[music]
The quarterfinals at the Australian
Open. Alina Spidilina reached the semis
down under after she took out Cocoa Golf
in under an hour. But it was the
American who hit the headlines after
taking out her frustration on a racket
after the defeat. Spidilina will face
world number one Arena Sabalanka for a
place in the final after she took out
young American Eva Jovich. And don't
forget TC Live will keep you up to date.